



The Builder, No. 1, December 31, 1842.




                              THE BUILDER.

                            PRECURSOR NUMBER.

                   THIRD IMPRESSION OF FIVE THOUSAND.

                       LONDON, DECEMBER 31, 1842.

               No. 1.]                          PRICE. { _Unstamped, 1½ d._
                                                       { _Stamped,   2½ d._




ADDRESS.


Upon the occasion of addressing, for the first time, a particular class,
and that too through the medium of a decidedly class-paper, it seems to
us that the views and intentions of its conductor should be unreservedly
stated. We commence, then, in the spirit that will characterize our
future advocacy of the varied interests enumerated in another page. It is
avowed that we enter upon this portion of the wide field of literature
and science as our legitimate province, inasmuch as we were brought
up, educated, and have long wrought in it; mere qualification for any
undertaking is, however, but one amongst the elements of success, and
unless combined with well-timed efforts, frequently disappoints the
possessor:—we invite the reader to judge of the timeliness of our own by
the following incident, the explanations it gives rise to, and of the
result in the publication before him.

Conversing a few months since with a leading bookseller and publisher in
this metropolis, we had occasion to remark upon the costly, not to say
exorbitant, price of Architectural books; this fact was not disputed, and
the cause at once ascribed to the smallness of the number of readers,
which made it impossible it should be otherwise. We almost held up our
hands in astonishment, as we repeated his words “smallness of the number
of readers!” Call you five hundred thousand a small number? Can a class
of half a million male adults, whom we may emphatically term all readers,
and members of reading families; a class of half a million of the pick of
British Artisans; a class of the highest intelligence, and (measured by
their wages and numbers) highest in wealth: can we talk of the smallness
of the number of readers, and assume to know any thing of this large and
influential body? It was in this strain that we interrogated our friend
the bookseller; it was a burst of somewhat indignant feeling, for we had
long thought on the subject, and felt convinced that the fault lay, not
with the reader, but rather with the writer and publisher. We have since
put the case in a familiar way to other parties, as we will now proceed
to do to _our_ readers.

Suppose the Grocers, whose business it is to supply the commodities of
their shops in a way suited to the daily wants of customers, were to act
upon the principle of refusing to parcel out their tea and sugar, or to
dispose of it in less quantities than a chest of the former, or a hundred
weight of the latter; or, bringing the parallel nearer, suppose the
Bakers, in dispensing the “staff of life,” were to set themselves above
the standard of purveying the quartern, and half-quartern loaf; or again,
that the Butcher should sell his meat in nothing less than the carcase;
or that these tradesmen were to study only the palate and appetite of
dainty and refined stomachs; what, let us ask, would be the condition of
men of moderate means, and homely requirements? Why, just that which in
regard to the food of the mind is the condition of the Working Builder.

There are in England, Scotland, and Wales, one hundred and twenty
thousand Carpenters, of full age, and we may assume for Ireland (the
compiled accounts not assisting us here) thirty thousand more, making
a total of one hundred and fifty thousand, exclusive of apprentices,
in this trade alone, who, in common with the other co-operating
Building Artificers, require to read and study (and in some instances
to abstruseness) on all subjects connected with their craft. For these
hundreds of thousands there has hitherto been no retailing of proper food
for the mind; no books at moderate prices, and in suitable parcels; and
if we except the issue in parts and numbers of works such as those of
Mr. Peter Nicholson, the large sale of which confirms the truth of our
convictions, nothing in the shape of a trade instructor, or magazine,
adapted to their several pursuits has yet been offered to this immense
body. The “Architectural Magazine,” by Mr. London, indeed, did wonders
in its way; and other journals which have followed in its track are,
no doubt, well adapted to the particular departments whose cause they
espouse, and promote;[1] but what is there, we ask again, for the
work-shop, and for the fire-side circle of the Building Artisan?

Examine our PROSPECTUS, and contemplate the numbers forming an array
of what we have advisedly termed “the pick of British Artisans.” Be it
remembered, however, that we do not use these words in an invidious
sense, or in disparagement of other bodies of the industrious citizens
of the empire; but, considering the standard of perfection, in body
and mind, required for the proper practising of the Building Arts, and
considering also the healthful nature of their occupations, it will
not be deemed arrogant in us to speak thus of the class to which we
have the honour to belong; in addition, we have the influence which
numbers, intelligence, and wealth, if united, must ever secure to us.
With all these advantages present to literary eyes and ears, in an
age of professed catering, printing, and publishing, is it not one of
the greatest marvels—a huge paradox—that there is no such thing as a
_Builder’s Newspaper and Magazine_?

We have just said Newspaper and Magazine, for it has occurred to us
(rather happily, we opine and trust), to combine them; that is to say,
the particular features which distinguish either. We would relieve the
Working Builder from a double charge for matter less available to him in
practice, as well as from the still greater evil, in many instances, of a
dry magazine at home, and a well moistened newspaper at a public-house.
We have an eye to the superior household and domestic economy which
prevails, and which we would have still more constant in the Builder’s
Circle. We would give him a book on his trade, worth preserving, and a
newspaper for the reading of his wife and family, as well as for himself;
and, finally, we would make the weekly pence set apart from his earnings,
for the gratification of a common feeling of curiosity, not begrudged by
the partner of his cares on the one hand, or to be regretted by the most
thrifty economist on the other, since, even the news will be the vehicle
of trade knowledge, and consequently of the means of trade, with its
advantages and profits.

In designating our paper, we use the word “Builder” in its most extended
sense—instancing a house, or other edifice, we regard it from the
procurement and preparation of the materials, to the fixing upon its
site, and to its full completion for the residence, use, and enjoyment
of man, and which includes the making of the design or plan, “breaking”
ground, as it is termed; the erection, or building up; decorating,
fitting, and furnishing; the supply of water and drainage; and even the
laying out of the garden, pleasure grounds, and park. This is the whole
art of building, or, in other words, of providing and perfecting human
habitations. To all, therefore, who are engaged in the Art so defined,
we address ourselves without distinction, and without preference; the
interests of all will, to the best of our power, be consulted, promoted,
and advocated.

It now becomes us to say a few words as to how far this step (that is,
the issuing of the “PRECURSOR NUMBER”) is to be considered on our part
as an experiment; for, without being clear and explicit, we should, in
case of failure, or rather abandonment, of our enterprise (for failure
there can be none, where provision is made against that result), incur
the blame of not having given our friends, the Building Classes, a clear
view of the part which we humbly conceive it is their duty and interest
to take in the business.

The “Precursor” is a _trial number_; and we make the avowal plainly and
distinctly. Our part of the affair is to make every effort to supply
what we consider a useful and most desirable public object. The part of
the building fraternity, to whom it is particularly addressed, and the
part of those who regard as a duty all the exertions they are making in
the cause of public education; and also of those who pursue the arts
out of a pure love and liking, is to support our humble efforts if they
deem them worthy of appreciation. The less the sacrifice called for on
either side the better. Let the covenants between us be of an equitable
nature, and as we start upon the principle of discountenancing, as far
as practicable, all lottery and riskful speculation (of which we will
say more presently), so in the basis of this compact with our friends
and readers, we would remove all unnecessary hazard, or complexion
of adventure. We give our best exertion in what appears to us a work
of common good; if our friends think well and approvingly of these
exertions, and that work, let them contribute their part, were it alone
for economy and fairness sake.

We do not rely upon the leviathan power of capital for our success;
but we purpose building it up by an honest and diligent pursuit of the
objects defined, aided by a fair share of judgment, and other necessary
qualifications; and we anticipate it in the cheerful and generous
response of our countrymen: and this Precursor Number, as its name
implies, has its office in searching out the way, and exploring the track
which its successor “THE BUILDER” is designed to follow. If the Precursor
finds a ready passport, and a significant welcome, of which we have no
doubt, it will be promptly followed by that of which it will have been
the harbinger.

We invite, therefore, an active dispersion of the Precursor amongst our
friends; but, above all, we respectfully invite communications from the
many distinguished patrons and favourers of works of this class. We
invite also the Architect, Engineer, Landscape Gardener, Master Builder,
Manufacturers in ornamental processes, and proprietors generally, Clerks
of Works, Foremen, and Workmen, to avail themselves of the ready means
of the penny-postage, to aid us by their supporting voices, and by any
suggestions they can commit to paper. A Supplement will be issued with
a subsequent impression of the Precursor (without increase of price),
and in that Supplement our correspondence, and additional advertisements
will appear; we, therefore, scarcely need say that the more promptly our
friends reply to the invitation the better.

It now remains for us to say something of the peculiar character
proposed to be given to the “Builder.” The Prospectus, which serves
as the basis of this exposition, sets forth that the trade essays and
descriptions will be accompanied by illustrations and diagrams: that is,
we shall supply drawings, to render clearer the accounts we may give of
mechanical inventions and processes; drawings of ornament, or enrichment
in Plasterwork, Painting, Sculpture, Carving, Iron, and other metals;
drawings of Mouldings, and Moulded work, for the Carpenter, Mason, and
Bricklayer; drawings of _construction_, in roofs, floors, trusses, and
framing, hand-railing, &c., centering of arches and groining; drawings
of Buildings, both ancient and modern; plans, elevations, sections,
and details: drawings of Architectural orders and styles; drawings for
instruction in perspective, geometry, and the like; and, occasionally,
coloured printing, in such matters as pertain to painting and staining.

We shall also give patterns for the paperhanger and upholsterer, and
designs for furniture; and a comprehensive range of constructive
and ornamental design suited to that immense territory of British
pre-eminence, the Iron-foundry and its workshops: as connected with
these, we come to that creative and directing science, Civil Engineering,
and here drawings of constructed works, of Engines and Machinery, will
have a prominent place, accompanying the descriptive treatises and essays.

From this enumeration it must be evident that a large space will be
devoted to the sciences in the nature of connected and consecutive
essays; another part to the record of progress in the Building Art; and a
third to news relating to Building and Builders.

Reviews and notices of publications intended for or likely to be useful
to Builders, will also be given, and biographical sketches of eminent men
connected with science and the arts. These separate heads, together with
correspondence and inquiries, will constitute the peculiarities of our
Journal, and the remaining space will assume the aspect of the general
weekly press—home and foreign news; digest of Parliamentary reports;
political opinions of the leading Journals; dramatic notices; general
literary reviews; police and law reports; markets, and advertisements.

So ample is the field before us, that there can be no lack of matter or
subjects; our business will be to cull the choicest for the literary
banquet of our friends. Much that is valuable we hope and look for in
the shape of correspondence; one of the chief merits of “THE BUILDER”
being, that it is a direct and fitting medium for conveying instruction
from the liberal and enlightened of every department—a free exchange of
knowledge—which we anticipate may result in mutual good service to all.

[1] We would instance the Civil Engineer and Architect.




WILLIAM OF WYKEHAM.


We have selected the portraiture of this illustrious man, whose fame
lives in national works, as the first wherewith to embellish our GALLERY
OF ARCHITECTS—a man who was eminent, not only as an architect, but as
a liberal patron of the arts—not only as a builder of colleges, but as
a munificent donor to the cause of education, and whose institutions
still flourish among the proudest in the land. “Many there are,” says
Bishop Lowth, in his Life of Wykeham, “who have felt the influence of his
liberality, or who are actually partakers of his bounty.”

It is rarely that instances approaching in interest to that of our
subject present themselves; of successful talent we have many, but they
are limited to its mere exercise for ordinary reward; others, where
ambition and ostentation, as in the case of Wolsey, stimulated to a
patronage of great works, while in that of Wykeham we have a memorable
example of true nobility of mind, soaring from humble origin to the most
elevated stations in church and state, and fulfilling its duties by an
active exercise of all the kindred virtues.

William of Wykeham was born at the village of that name in Hampshire,
in the year 1324, of reputable but poor parents, whose deficiency of
means to afford him education was supplied by the generous intervention
of Nicholas Uvedale, lord of the manor of Wykeham, and constable of
Winchester Castle, then one of the great offices of the kingdom. After
going through the course of study afforded by the school at Winchester,
we find him officiating as secretary to Uvedale, and subsequently
executing commissions of trust as attorney for Edyngdon, Bishop of
Winchester, his immediate predecessor in that see, in whose service he
appears at that time to have been engaged.

The piety, diligence, and early acquirements of Wykeham had recommended
him to the notice of many patrons, both lay and ecclesiastical, and paved
the way for his introduction to that of the reigning monarch, Edward
III., and of his son, the renowned Black Prince; he had already entered
the subordinate ranks of the clergy, and the fitness of his choice was
confirmed in after times by the dignities he attained to; that elevation
was, however, preceded by the execution of works which have stamped his
fame as an Architect.

It is natural that we should ask, how was this talent in architecture
acquired? We find no account of the preparation or training, beyond that
of the general knowledge he had gained at the school of Winchester, aided
by the intuitive genius and taste proper to comprehensive intellectual
powers. No record exists of his having studied at either of the
universities, and if it had been so, the regard and confidence of the
King must be attributed to acquirements very superior to those at that
time current at Oxford or Cambridge, where theological controversy was
the leading and absorbing theme. We are told, indeed, that Wykeham had
studied “arithmetic, mathematics, divinity, and, above all, the canon
and civil law;” and we see no reason to the contrary. The school of
Winchester, a city then second to none in the kingdom in splendour and
opulence, would scarcely be deficient of teachers in these courses of
study; in the mode, and according to the then understanding of their
relative uses and value.

It is, upon the whole, probable that Wykeham gave the first proofs of
skill as an Architect in the extension and reparation of Winchester
Castle, during his employment by Nicholas Uvedale. That it was a fortress
of considerable extent and consequence, history abundantly proves; and it
continued so down to the period of the civil strife between the adherents
of Charles I. and the Parliamentary armies; but whatever may have been
the extent or description of building previously executed by him, it led
to his appointment, by patent, dated May 10th, 1356, of Clerk of all the
King’s works in the manors of Henley and Yesthampstead; and by a second
patent, under date 30th October of the same year, he was made Surveyor of
all the King’s works at the Castle and Park of Windsor; and subsequently
of all the royal castles south of Trent.

In these capacities he was furnished with extensive powers; such as
directing the issue of the King’s writ to the sheriffs of counties,
requiring them to impress workmen, who were compelled to labour at
fixed wages; to purvey and apply all material fitted for building; to
hold courts for pleas of trespass and misdemeanours; and to inquire of
the King’s liberties and rights within his demesne lands. The prelude
to the erection of Windsor Castle was the assembling of 360 impressed
workmen, by forties, from nine adjoining counties, in addition to
those voluntarily engaged; the original Norman building was levelled,
and on its site, under the eye of a warlike monarch who delighted in
embattled towers and gorgeous halls fitted for the display of chivalric
institutions, was reared this far-famed fortress and palace of our kings.

Windsor Castle occupied from ten to twelve years of continued labour,
and comprised the King’s palace; the great hall of St. George; buildings
for various purposes, on the east and south sides of the upper ward; the
keep, or tower; the chapel of St. George; the residences of the custos
and canons, in the lower ward, with the whole circumference of the walls,
towers, and gates. Many parts of the original building remain, but the
lapse of nearly five hundred years, frequent repairs, the enlargements
and alterations required to meet the conveniences or tastes of successive
kings, most of whom have expended immense sums in real or fancied
improvements, have, in a great degree, obliterated a plan and style
which was, in Castellated Architecture, the perfection of the fourteenth
century.

His second work was the Castle of Queenborough, in the Isle of Sheppy,
which, from the lowness of the site, and nature of the foundations,
required unusual skill in the Architect. It was commenced in 1361, and
completed in about six years, when the King, holding his court there,
made the town a free borough, naming it Queenborough, in honour of his
Queen Philippa. Of this structure no part remains; but its position and
extent are ascertained by the moat which surrounded it. There can be no
doubt this was one of the principal castles of the kingdom, designed
both as a means of defence against invasion, and as a point for the
assembling of fleets and armies for offensive purposes. We are told of
this building, that it was “large, strong, and magnificent;” a fitting
residence for royalty, and one of the strongholds of the realm; and its
importance may be estimated by the rank of its constables, who were, in
the reign of Edward III., John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster; Richard II.,
Robert de Vere, Earl of Oxford; Henry IV., John Cornwall, Baron Fanhope;
Henry VII., Humphry Stafford, Duke of Buckingham; Edward IV., George,
Duke of Clarence, &c. The last repairs were done in the reign of Henry
VIII., 1536.

Pending these works, Wykeham grew into high favour with his royal
master, and church preferment was heaped upon him with a lavish hand;
he filled also in succession the offices of Secretary of State, Keeper
of the Privy Seal, and Chancellor of England; and upon the death of
Edyngdon, Bishop of Winchester, in 1366, he succeeded to that see, one
of the richest and most influential in the kingdom. With his career
as a prelate or a statesman, we can have little to do in this sketch,
but we may be permitted to notice that it was replete with great and
disinterested actions. Prosperity so brilliant had, however, its hour of
adversity, but which only served to place in bolder relief the virtues
of the Christian and the dignity of the man. In the dotage of Edward
III., charges of malversation, in the execution of his high offices, were
preferred against the Bishop of Winchester, at the instigation of John
of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, who had always manifested an irreconcilable
jealousy of his influence with the king. This proceeding was followed
by an arbitrary sequestration of the temporalities of the bishop, and
he retired to the monastery of Merton, and subsequently to the Abbey of
Waverly, near Farnham, amid the universal regrets of the nation. The
aspersion of a character so singularly exempt from the besetting sin
of avarice, and its twin vices, peculation and sensualism, could not,
however, be long sustained; and at the end of seven months he was happily
restored to the means of carrying forward magnificent designs for the
benefit of posterity.

From this period Wykeham seems, as much as possible, to have relieved
himself from the burthen of secular affairs, although we find him again
Chancellor in the unsettled reign of Richard II., but which office he
took the earliest occasion to resign. Long and faithful services to the
state had entitled him to repose; but there was no cessation in the
activity of a mind fraught with benevolent purposes. Possessed of great
wealth, he seems to have considered himself but as a steward intrusted
with a useful application of it, and he devised, with as much judgment as
human foresight is permitted to exercise, the establishments we are now
to mention.

With the year 1373 began the formation of a school at Oxford, that of
Winchester having much earlier been taken under his especial care; at
each, masters were provided, and scholars, to the number of seventy,
lodged and boarded at his sole charge. These were, however, but
preliminary steps to the great and original plans contemplated, namely,
the founding of colleges at Oxford and Winchester, with buildings,
masters, and suitable appointments, and a perpetual maintenance for two
hundred scholars, who, while receiving the advantage of liberal support,
were trained from elementary learning through the whole circle of the
sciences. So costly was this undertaking, that no individual, with a
single exception, has had the means or generosity to emulate the example.
This occurred in the person of King Henry VI., whose colleges at Eton
and Cambridge were founded upon principles scarcely varying from these
models.

Wykeham was now fifty-five years old, and, in realizing his plans, found
full scope for the display of matured genius. Neither the cares of state
which he had encountered, nor the personal ease which so frequently
inclines even great minds to passive inaction, could obliterate his
predilections for architecture. Under this master of his art were
perfected improvements in Gothic style which have procured for examples
of this period the distinction of the _pure or decorated English_. These
consist in increased boldness, highly wrought and varied sculpture,
and enriched vaultings, with exterior ornaments of statuary, niched or
canopied, upon the western or great entrance fronts of ecclesiastical
buildings. With the taste to dictate and the wealth to execute such
magnificent designs, he entered upon his tasks, and, in 1379, personally
laid the first stone of the college familiarly termed New College,
Oxford, but by himself “Sainte Marie College of Winchestre in Oxenford,”
which was completed and its establishment inducted with much ceremony in
1386.

We may here be permitted to observe, that with every disposition to dwell
upon the details and beauties of this and his succeeding works, want of
space compels us, for the moment, to relinquish an intention to do so;
but, as subjects of national interest, we shall recur to them, aided
by illustrations calculated to render many peculiarities of this style
available in modern practice.

But to resume our brief notices. Scarcely a year elapsed before the
second, or St. Mary’s College, at Winchester, was in progress, and in
six years fitted for the reception of its professors and students. In
extent and style this edifice bears the strong impress of its founder,
whose memory lives freshly in the veneration of his children, for such we
may term those who are here nurtured and taught, and from amongst whom
have stood forth many worthies of the church, and others of the highest
attainments in science.

The next, and last, work of this eminent and excellent prelate, the
construction of the western front, and the nave and aisles of his
cathedral at Winchester, was commenced in 1394, and the 70th of his age;
and in this instance the unimpaired vigour of his conceptions, and the
extreme liberality with which he appropriated his resources, are equally
subjects for lasting admiration. It was built by Walklyn, the first
Norman bishop after the conquest; and in its governing features, _extent
and massiveness_, is in the style so called. We have before mentioned
the western front as the work of Wykeham, which, though mutilated by
barbarian fanaticism, retains much of its splendour, and is a marked
example of his manner. Entering by this door-way, we are at once upon the
scene of his mightiest achievement;—the eye becomes fixed for a moment by
the gorgeous colouring of the eastern window, then wanders upwards amidst
the infinite tracery and adornment of the vault, and, having scanned the
vastness of the pile, seeks repose in a more leisure examination of the
isolated, but not less beautiful, objects of sculpture below.

Apart from associations and impressions induced by the aspect of Gothic
temples upon the great scale, we here find the elements of solidity,
propriety, and uniformity carefully preserved, and the enrichments
distributed with a masterly hand; the groining of the roof springs from
single shafts rising from octangular bases; the capitals are highly
embellished with busts and foliage, and the frieze charged with bold and
finely-sculptured bosses; in fact, we have here before us an _era in the
Gothic style_, and a perfect adaptation of its capabilities, carried out
with all the originality that distinguished the genius of the architect.

The various writers who have treated on the antiquities of Winchester
agree that the effect produced by the columnar vista of the nave, in
combination with the group of chantries and screens, is not surpassed
by any spot in England, or in Europe. In minute Gothic, or shrine-work,
it is also unrivalled. The tomb of Wykeham, executed, according to the
practice of the middle ages, under his own direction, is the purest of
all authorities in this style: it is placed within the mortuary chapel,
or chantry, occupying the fifth arch from the west end, and is rich in
canopies and tabernacle work; the latter originally contained statues
of saints, particularly that of the Virgin, which stood against the
same pillar, when in his youth he had worshipped here; but these have
long since been destroyed, and the tomb despoiled also of the enchased
escutcheons which adorned it. The marble figure represents the prelate
as possessing full features, and a placid, benign, and intelligent
countenance; it is clothed in full episcopal costume, the head resting
upon a pillow supported by angels, and at the feet are three figures of
one of the religious orders, in the attitude of prayer.

The life so usefully spent closed in the year 1404, leaving more durable
and splendid memorials than it has been the lot of any other individual
to rear. Having, for nearly half a century, held the highest stations,
and possessed almost unbounded influence, we find it to have been exerted
in a spirit far in advance of his times; and personal aggrandizement
grew upon him as a consequence of undeviating integrity and universal
benevolence; these great and marked qualities were evinced in pure and
unabated loyalty to his prince, courtesies and services to his equals of
the church and the nobles of the land; and, above all, in the kindness,
forbearance, and mercy which he caused to be exercised towards the people
of a yet unenlightened age.

William of Wykeham expired at his manor house, or palace, of Waltham,
Hants, A.D. 1404, in the eightieth year of his age, and his remains rest
under the tomb we have described. His life affords, perhaps, the most
brilliant example on record of the combined power of industry and genius;
the industry to acquire knowledge, and the genius to apply it in advance
of preceding theories. His earliest employments seem to have been merely
such as a tolerably well-educated man of the fourteenth century would
find little difficulty in obtaining. Architecture was his diverging point
from the monotony of ordinary life towards the greatness he achieved,
his first essays appearing to have resulted from opportunities which
casually fell in his way, but embraced with an alacrity inspired by
self-confidence. Having once engaged in it, his fondness for the science
knew no abatement, for however lofty his position in the state, or
onerous his duties as a churchman, he found leisure to cultivate it;
and having engrafted new and more impressive features upon the style
he delighted in, may be said to have died in the exercise of _this
profession_, just before the completion of his cathedral at Winchester.

So exalted were the stations and so extensive the influence he possessed,
that the spirit of benevolence by which he was actuated had full scope
for exertion. While serving his prince with unswerving loyalty, he
found means to protect the people from oppression and exactions, and
by numerous courtesies and services to the nobility, won them to a
milder exercise of their territorial privileges; while in the relations
of private intercourse, we are told that he was “the kindest and most
generous of patrons, and the most constant and affectionate friend,
rarely changing his officers or domestics, none leaving, or being
deserted by him, and all receiving in their turn testimonies of his
favour.”

By his hand the revenues of the church were disbursed in her service and
to her honour, and, to use the words of Lowth, the whole period from the
meridian of life to the end of his days was employed “in one continued
series of generous actions and great designs, for the good of his
friends, of the poor, and of his country.”




OUR SERMON.


In adopting this heading for a series of articles, which will be
continued as occasion offers, we are very far from intending to
startle our readers with a rush of theological disquisition. In proof
of our sincerity, and as an earnest of the gist of our discourses, we
have chosen as a standing text, or motto, the golden rule of “peace
and goodwill to all men;” but while we leave intact the functions of
the divine, it is our business, as we conceive it to be our duty, to
sermonize on the morals of trade, the social relations of every-day
life, and even the proprieties which enhance every species of domestic
enjoyment.

A right understanding of the relative duties of master and man, or of
employer and the employed, yields to no subject in importance; peculiar
incidents, induced by a rapidly increasing population, the tendency of
commercial wealth to accumulate in masses, and its employment under
the familiar term “capital,” through the agency of individuals, in the
construction of great works, constitutes, however, an era in the Building
trade to which former periods bear no very strict analogy. In offering
our humble opinions upon actuating causes and their effects, be the
subject what it may, we will never lose sight of our text; we shall make
use neither of angry words nor denunciations; peace is too lovely to
our minds, and charity too imperative to be abandoned; we would dispel
the darker and sterner passions, giving every brother full credit for
good intentions, and assign occasional deviations from the path of right
rather to misfortune than intention. Whatever the class of men addressed
or dealt with, this, we are convinced, is the best and only true policy.
It may be very well for any one to talk of their anger being aroused, or
their indignation excited, and so on, and under such pleas to vent abuse,
imprecate a thousand vengeances, and the like, but, depend upon it, fear
is less to be relied on than love; we would win a child to our love, not
deter it by frowns and coercion;—we would have a thousand friends rather
than a single enemy.

Who has not heard of the tale of the traveller, upon whom the sun and
wind essayed their power? These elements, as the fable puts it, were at
issue as to which was superior, and agreed to rest the decision upon
the effect they should produce upon the first wayfarer. Well, first the
wind fell to work, and blew with all his might, to compel the subject of
their experiment to throw off his cloak, but the more vehemently the man
was assailed, the closer he wrapped the garment about him; in turn the
sun made trial of his power, and genial warmth soon accomplished what
the bluster of the ruder element had made more and more difficult. So in
human policy the kindly glow excited by generous sentiments and actions
will succeed where threats, force, and even punishments have failed. The
human heart has no such obduracies but that charity will overcome them.

It is a part of our present purpose to refer to practical benevolence
of this nature, and it will be found in an extract from the _Leeds
Mercury_, given in another part of our paper, on the subject of the
treatment of workpeople, by Sir John Guest, at Merthyr Tydvil, and the
Messrs. Marshall, of Leeds. These, thank God, and for the honour of our
country, are not solitary instances. These gentlemen stand not alone in
the practice of that soundest principle of Christian political economy
which instructs the rich to dispense of their abundance for the benefit
of their poorer brethren. We have Master Builders in every department,
proprietors of large works and establishments, whose names we could hold
up to the admiration of their craft and country, but we will not do this
violence to their unobtrusive merit, neither will we invite invidious
comparisons by such selections; we would rather hold up these Christian
duties for common emulation, and call upon all to “go and do likewise.”

We open, then, our exhortations to MASTERS, because we know that the
first impulse of benignant power must originate with _them_; kindness
from them may be likened to the sun in its influence, and most surely
will it be returned with usurious interest “into their basket and their
store.”

Who ever saw the good father of a family putting firm faith in virtue
and honour, and regulating his household by their dictates, failing to
raise up virtuous, amiable, and honourable citizens? or, to put the case
stronger, who ever knew the man that acted upon opposite principles
succeed in sowing any thing but vice and discord? Depend upon it, then,
the same principles and rules apply in business, from the overseer of the
smallest undertaking to the governor of a nation. Fatherly solicitude
for those under our care, or for whom we bear any responsibility, is as
solemn and sacred a duty as the fulfilment of contracts or engagements;
nay, it is the first of duties between man and man.

On the other hand, as to the workman,—fidelity—and more, the same
generous kindness towards his master is required, as that he would
receive; in fact, “to do unto others us you would be done by,” is the
great and universal secret of social happiness.

It is with this view of relative duties that we deem it of as much
importance to engage ourselves in giving good counsel to our craft,
as in enlightening them on principles of science pertaining to their
several callings; for of what avail will it be to a man to possess all
the knowledge of his art, if his heart be corrupt, or continue under
vicious influences? Away with, as dross, all the ability of the engineer,
architect, master builder, or workman, if _the man_ be not endowed with
moral excellence. What are beautiful designs, imposing structures,
mechanical skill, or ingenious artifice in workmanship, without a mind
and heart in harmony with the superior inspirations which virtue alone
bestows? This, this indeed must come first as the base of the pyramid. In
any other case the pyramid may be there, but it topples, leans, or lies
on its side; the same inherent beauty may exist, but its position and
action are superadded elements of deformity. Oh, how beautiful the human
mind when lit up and guided by the impulses of virtue! how terrible and
loathsome when passion and gaunt sensuality have their sway!

Guard, my beloved countrymen, against avarice, envy, malice; avoid
contentions; be moderate in the desire of gain; repine not at another’s
success in life, or the distinctions he may attain to; cast all rancorous
suggestions far from your heart; contend not in any unholy spirit of
craving competition; “live, and let live,” is a maxim which we conjure
you at all times to observe.

In times of commercial depression, aggravate not your own or another’s
suffering; these, like seasons of sickness and malady, must and will have
their recurrences, and they will recur more frequently, and press more
grievously, where brotherly love and charity, the great preventative and
remedy of human ills, are neglected. Let none imagine it his privilege to
be exempt from these obligations; let us not, because we see a neighbour
unmindful of his duties in any of the multifarious walks of life, think
ourselves justified in departing from our superior policy; neither must
we judge and condemn; inflict, if you will, pains and penalties on
yourself, but you have no right to do so on another.

Pardon us, good brothers of our building fraternity, and you who do us
the favour to lend an ear to our counsellings, if we thus seek to engage
your attention, and offer our well-meant importunings. Should your
approving suffrages incite a continuance of our vocation, it will be our
ambition to discuss the relative duties of the stations you respectively
fill—master, apprentice, or workman; father, brother, son, or husband;
neighbour or friend; and to do as we have now done, namely, try to
improve each and all, and in doing so, promote, in some degree, the cause
of human happiness.




TREATMENT OF WORK-PEOPLE BY THEIR EMPLOYERS.


In an article under this head it was mentioned that the parliamentary
inquiry into the payment of wages in goods had shewn, that there are
persons extensively engaged in manufactures of various kinds, who
feel that the employment of bodies of workpeople involves a degree of
responsibility to care for their general well-being, and who act on that
conviction in a manner highly creditable to themselves, and conducive to
the excellent object they have in view. These employers are of opinion
that to regard as a machine a man whose skill or industry assists them to
maintain their own families in respectability, is altogether unchristian,
and that by viewing workpeople in such a light, they would deprive
themselves of some of the finest opportunities of usefulness, and of
cementing the bonds of society.

Of course, as the intention in moving for a committee of the House of
Commons was to expose grievances, it was not likely that any examples
of conduct distinguished for its humanity would be found in the pages
of the report. As we remarked, however, when formerly writing on the
subject, illustrations of this kind might be obtained by any one from
our own neighbourhood. We had only last week the pleasure of visiting an
extensive range of school buildings just erected on the best principles,
in connection with Messrs. Marshall’s mill at Holbeck. In that suite of
rooms there are between 300 and 400 children under daily instruction,
independent of about 160 boys, who work half-time at the factory, and
are at school either in the morning or afternoon of every day; the same
gentlemen have also instituted girls’ and infant schools (which are
situated elsewhere), and a night school, attended by young men and women
from the mill, whose improvement in conduct as well as attainments, in
consequence of this arrangement, is spoken of as highly gratifying. In
the several schools every thing seems to be done to promote the comfort
of the young, and to cultivate habits of cleanliness and decorum, as
well as to impart an excellent plain education.[2] Plans for affording
the means of recreation to the adult workpeople have also been devised
in connection with these buildings; and all manifests that a sincere
interest is felt by the members of the firm in the welfare of every class
in their employ.

The principal example of attention to the interests of workpeople which
came under the notice of the parliamentary committee, was that of Sir
John Guest and Co., at their iron and coal works, Dowlais. These works,
which were established from thirty to forty years since, “in an isolated
place on the top of a hill,” in Glamorganshire, have now a town around
them (Merthyr Tydvil), and nearly 5,000 persons are employed by this
firm alone. In the first instance, great difficulty was experienced by
the workpeople in procuring the means of lodging, but in the course of
time this was removed by the erection of a large number of cottages at
the expense of the company, and by the people being encouraged to build
dwellings for themselves. The cottages belonging to the firm are stated
to be low-rented, convenient, well built, well drained, and the taking
of them is quite optional with the workpeople; while the granting of
loans to steady men to build cottages for themselves has been pursued to
a considerable extent, and has been found to attach them to the place,
to keep them from the ale-house, and to produce and confirm in them a
feeling of independence.

The amount of each individual’s wages at this extensive establishment
is settled every Friday evening, and the whole of the hands are paid on
the morning of Saturday; shewing that a large number of workpeople is
no barrier to the early payment of wages if employers are determined to
adopt that highly beneficial practice.

Nearly twenty-four years ago, Sir John Guest and his partners recognised
the responsibility which attached to them as employers by erecting
large schools, near the works at Dowlais, chiefly for the education
of the children of their workmen, but (like Messrs. Marshall) not
confined to them. There are at present about 220 girls and 250 boys
under instruction, the children being admitted at the age of six, and
usually remaining until thirteen years old. The teachers are well paid,
and the whole expenses of the schools are defrayed by the workpeople and
employers together, in the following manner:—Twopence in the pound is
stopped every week “for the doctor” from the wages of every one in the
works, of which 1½d. is appropriated to provide medical attendance for
the families of the workmen, and the remainder goes towards the support
of the schools. Each child is also expected to pay one penny a week, and
whatever is wanting to make up the amount incurred in maintaining the
educational establishments is contributed by the company. In connection
with the schools, it is worthy of notice that Mr. Evans, the manager at
Dowlais (from whose evidence our facts are drawn), expressed before the
committee a strong conviction, as the result both of his own observation
for above twenty years, and of the statements of colliers themselves,
that for a collier to put his child to work in the pits very young is
decidedly bad economy; instead of gaining, the family loses by it in
the long run, while the unfortunate victim of error or cupidity becomes
decrepit and unfit for work when individuals of the same age are in
possession of mature strength. Very few of the children taught in the
schools at Dowlais become colliers, the greater number being qualified
for employment as carpenters, smiths, and, in some instances, even
book-keepers. “We derive very great advantage,” says Mr. Evans, “from
having children in the works who have been educated there; they are of
great use to us.” Here, then, is a proof to masters who have not yet
exerted themselves for the elevation of the families dependent on them,
but are disposed to do so, that such a course is not only beneficial
to others, but brings a reward to every one who adopts it. The medical
attendants on the workpeople at Dowlais consist of three regular surgeons
and a dispenser, whose services are remunerated chiefly by the money
stopped from the wages. In 1827 a fund for the relief of the sick and
aged was formed, one penny in the pound being stopped every week to
furnish the necessary supply for the wants of those who are thus unable
to provide for themselves; this fund is at the disposal of a committee,
elected yearly by all the contributors.

From the peculiar circumstances of the district, when the works of Sir
John Guest and Co. were established, and for many years after, it was
desirable and even needful that the firm should afford their workpeople
the means of obtaining the necessaries of life by maintaining a shop on
the premises. In 1823, however, they closed it, but once again opened
it at the request of the men in 1828. On the act against truck shops
being passed in 1831, the workmen were called together and desired to
state whether they wished the store belonging to the firm still to be
continued. The votes were taken by ballot, and thirteen only were given
for the discontinuance; but as there was not perfect unanimity, the
company thought it best that the shop should be finally closed at that
time; and the increase of population having had the usual effect of
attracting private individuals to supply the wants of the community,
the only result of this step was to shut up an establishment where
the labouring classes were always sure of buying good articles at a
moderate price. The accommodation being no longer necessary, we think the
company’s decision was a wise one.

It is gratifying to find that no loss whatever has been entailed on Sir
John Guest and Co. by all the beneficial regulations adopted by them on
behalf of their workpeople. On the contrary, “by the education of the
people,” Mr. Evans states, “we have gained more than we have spent upon
them.” And this gentleman expressed himself as feeling certain that if a
similar system were extended over the manufacturing and mining districts
of the whole country, it would prove the cheapest and most effectual mode
of benefiting both the working classes and employers, and consequently
society at large. Of course, the details of the system at Dowlais, or
at any other establishment of which an account is before the public,
are not essential to its being adopted with advantage in other parts of
the country, though the success which has attended those plans gives
them a title to careful consideration; the thing to be desired is, that
each employer should ask himself how far he can adopt the principle,
and then carry into operation the dictates of his own judgment and
conscience.—Leeds Mercury.

[2] The ventilation of the new school-rooms appears to be remarkably
effective—a point of great importance where so many individuals are
for three hours at a time congregated together. The playground also
is being extremely well laid out.




Reviews.


_Temples, Ancient and Modern, or Notes on Church Architecture._ By
WILLIAM BARDWELL, Architect. London: Fraser & Co., and Williams.

MR. BARDWELL, in the Preface to this work, states his object to be—

    “To endeavour to excite among architects a spirit of inquiry
    such as cannot fail to prevent a repetition of those
    improprieties the existence of which in our public edifices
    has so long afforded subject for complaint and matter for
    criticism;” and “to put an end to that inconsistency which
    is the cause of error,—namely, the tyranny of custom and
    the caprice of fashion: which, while they compel the modern
    architect to copy _in little_ and with meaner materials the
    sublime works of revered antiquity, indulge a laugh at his
    expense, because his reproduction fails to excite those
    sensations of pleasure and admiration which are inseparable
    from a contemplation of the original.”

Passing over the first three chapters of the work, which, although they
contain much excellent matter of opinion, to which all may subscribe, do
nevertheless open a door to controversy, and this it is our desire to
avoid,—we come to Chapter IV. This is headed “_Errors in the details of
late-erected Churches, a connected series of critical observations_;”
and has for its object, by stringing together a number of critiques from
the _Gentleman’s Magazine_ and other sources, to call attention to the
prevalent errors of past design, and to enunciate correct principles for
future practice. We quite agree with Mr. Bardwell, that “notwithstanding
the querulous tone in which the writers have occasionally indulged, the
extracts contain many hints that may be permanently useful;” and would
wish that the spirit of a following paragraph could be always borne in
mind by the critic and reviewer. “The legitimate object of criticism,”
says our author, “is to improve the future, rather than to cast
ill-natured censure upon the past.” However, we cannot take exception to
Mr. Bardwell’s discharge of his duty. He has most appositely given these
extracts through a whole chapter, and placed them in admirable order for
study and profitable reflection. No one can read through this chapter
attentively without being impressed with a desire to contribute his part
to the rectification of such errors as are therein pointed out—it will
awaken many to an active investigation where other modes of expression or
remonstrance would probably fail.

In Chapter V. Mr. Bardwell enters into the great question that awaits
us at every approach to a comprehensive study in architecture—THE
ORIGIN. Speculation on this point is in its nature endless; but it is
highly gratifying to feel occasionally that we are thrown in the way of
facts, and such it is the province of this chapter to treat us to. With
a little prefatory matter in the way of an assault upon the hitherto
deemed orthodox authorities on such subjects, and upon the principle
of adherence to rule and precedent, and upon the little fables of an
inventive tradition, assigning to this accident or that the origin of
this or that feature, plan, and style, we come to the “burden of the
book,”—TEMPLES; and have a most interesting dissertation on those of
ancient character, or on what we may more aptly term sacred edifices,
memorials, or monuments.

    “An altar of turf or of stones, _stones of memorial_, such
    as that set up at the grave of Jacob’s beloved Rachel, the
    _great stone_ near the oak at Shechem, Absalom’s Pillar,
    Jacob’s Bethel, SAMUEL’s Ebenezer, the Gilgal, or circle of
    stones, of JOSHUA; a heap of unhewn stones, the Pandoo Koolies,
    of Hindostan, the numerous pillars set up by the Phœnician
    merchants, on the shores of the Mediterranean, in France,
    in Sweden; and in Great Britain, circles and rows of huge
    stones, like those of Stonehenge, Abury, &c.; cromlechs and
    logan stones, a portable ark, or tabernacle, were the first
    sacred monuments. Next came the pyramid, a cylinder, whether a
    _cippus_ or a column; a cubical block, with a particular member
    superadded to the regularity of mathematical proportions. A
    sphere and a _tetrahedron_; and last succeeded a vase covered
    with a flat lid, and adorned with various sculptures from the
    vegetable and marine world.”

Thus Mr. Bardwell connects with religion the first memorable and
permanent efforts of Building Art—sacrifice he shows to have been
associated with, and to have guided the workings of, the first builders,
from the “primeval altar of little more than a raised hearth, built
generally of unhewn stones,” to the “column or stone pillar of _mystic_
character—‘And JACOB rose up early in the morning, and took the stone
that he had put for his pillow, and set it up for a _pillar_, and poured
oil upon the top of it; and he called the name of that place Beth-El.’”
“The Greeks also erected pillars which they called ‘_Baitulia_,’
evidently derived from Beth-El, involving the same mystery, and both
supposed to be symbols of _the Divine Presence_.”

Chapter VI. increases in interest, and is devoted to the TEMPLE OF AMMON.

    “The Temple of Ammon, the remains of which archæologists, for
    many powerful reasons, agree are extant in the enormous pile
    known as the Temple of Karnac, is by far the most extensive,
    as well as the most ancient, of the Theban edifices; properly
    belonging to the whole period of the monarchy, and may
    with propriety be termed the _Temple of the Pharaohs_, the
    majority of whom, in succession, more particularly such as
    are celebrated in history, contributed their efforts to its
    enlargement and magnificence. From numerous authorities it
    seems clear that HAM, the son of NOAH, the AMUN, AMMON, or
    OSIRIS of the Egyptians, must be considered as the original
    founder of Thebes, or the city of Ammon, as his son MIZRAIM,
    MISOR, or MENES, was by common consent the founder of Memphis;
    so that the temple of Ammon or Ham was, in all probability,
    originally named from its founder, like the Temple of Solomon
    at Jerusalem.”

We cannot take our readers along with us as we would by quoting largely
from this interesting chapter, nor will we presume to dispose of the work
by this brief and imperfect notice; it deserves much more at our hands;
it is written with an enlarged feeling, and a genuine spirit of devotion
to the sublime art upon which it treats; it is erudite, and occasionally
profound; but we must take our leave of it for the present, concluding
with another extract from the same chapter.

    “The remains of Karnac are about 2,500 feet from the banks of
    the Nile, on an artificial elevation, surrounded by a brick
    wall, about 6,300 yards in circuit. The chief front of the
    temple (the western) is turned towards the river, with which it
    was connected by an alley of colossal crio-sphinxes, leading
    down to the bank of the river. Here the devotee would land who
    came from a distance to the shrine of Ammon, and with amazement
    and a feeling of religious awe would he slowly walk along
    between the majestic and tranquil sphinxes to the still more
    magnificent propylæ of the building. This colossal entrance is
    about 360 feet long and 148 high; the great door in the middle
    is 64 feet high. Passing through this door-way, he would enter
    a long court, occupied by a row of pillars on the north and
    south sides, and a double row of taller pillars running down
    the middle. These pillars terminated opposite to two colossal
    statues in front of a second propylon, through which, after
    ascending a flight o’ twenty-seven steps, we enter the great
    hypostyle hall, which had a flat stone roof, supported by one
    hundred and thirty-four colossal pillars, some of which are
    twenty-six feet in circumference, and others thirty-four. The
    width of this magnificent hall (for the entrance is in the
    centre of the longest side) is about 338 feet, and the length
    or depth 170 feet. The centre column supported a clere-story,
    in which were small windows. Four beautiful obelisks mark the
    entrance to the adytum, which consists of three apartments
    entirely of granite. The centre or principal room is 20 feet
    long, 16 wide, and 13 feet high. Three blocks of granite form
    the roof, which is painted with clusters of gilt stars on a
    blue ground. Beyond this are other porticos and galleries,
    which have been continued to another propylon at the distance
    of 2,000 feet from that at the western extremity of the temple.”


_English Patents for 1841._ By ANDREW PRITCHARD, M.R.I., &c. Whitaker and
Co., London. 2s. 6d.

We had commenced the selection of a list of patents from this excellent
compendium, with the intention of laying before our readers all those
pertaining to the Building Art, but found that we should have to reprint
nearly the whole of the book; so comprehensive is the range we have
chosen, and so ingenious the class we have the honour to serve. Of 441
patents herein entered, by far the largest proportion are as we have
stated; and we can only, therefore, refer to the work itself. Besides
the above list of patents, there is appended a copy of Letters Patent,
an abstract of the Registration of Designs Act, and a notice respecting
its operation, concluding with a useful Index, which shews at one glance
what you would refer to. The value of such a work as this is not to be
estimated. All persons intending to take out patents should look over its
pages, as it may save much trouble and expense. We know of many who would
have been great gainers had they had such a guide at their elbows.




MISCELLANEOUS.


There is a consideration which entitles architecture to a decided
pre-eminence amongst the other arts. It is itself the parent of many
separate professions, and requires a combination of talents and an
extent of knowledge for which other professions have not the smallest
occasion. An acquaintance with the sciences of geometry and mechanical
philosophy, with the arts of sculpture and design, and other abstruse
and elegant branches of knowledge, are indispensable requisites in the
education of a good architect, and raise his art to a vast height above
those professions which practice alone can render familiar, and which
consist in the mere exertion of muscular force. From these considerations
it appears there is some foundation in the very nature of architecture
for those extraordinary privileges to which masons have always laid
claim, and which they have almost always possessed—privileges which no
other artists could have confidence to ask, or liberty to enjoy.—_Ency.
Brit., Vol. XIV., p. 280._

ALISON ON FRENCH ARCHITECTURE.—In France we find that public works have
been reared at an expense not exceeding that of edifices of little or no
excellence in our own country, even although the charges of building are
not materially different in the two countries. So true it is, that the
most essential elements in architectural beauty—genius and taste in the
architect, are beyond the power of mere wealth to command—that it is not
money to construct beautiful edifices, but the mind to conceive them,
which is generally wanting. It would seem, therefore, that it is the pure
taste and noble conceptions of the artists of Southern Europe, rather
than in any great excellence in the materials at their command, or the
wealth of which they have the disposal, to which we must ascribe their
remarkable superiority to those of this country.

DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY.—The additions and alterations which are
being made to this fine old mansion, the residence of His Grace the Duke
of Devonshire, are proceeding rapidly, and will add considerably to the
extent as well as to its internal arrangements. Mr. Decimus Burton is the
architect, and Messrs. Woolcott and Son are the contractors, for these
works, which will yet take many months to complete. The Duke is for the
present staying at his princely abode, Chatsworth.

CHURCH EXTENSION.—There are now twelve new churches building, or about to
be commenced, in various parts of the metropolis; one in the Kent-road,
in the parish of St. George, Southwark; one in the parish of Paddington;
another on the site of the Old Broadway Chapel, Westminster; a large
church, with a lofty Gothic tower, in which a musical peal of bells is
to be placed, in Wilton-square, Knightsbridge; three in Bethnal-green
parish, and a church in St. Pancras parish. Sites have been chosen
for a new church in the Waterloo-road district of Lambeth parish;
another in St. Botolph Without, Aldgate, in the county of Middlesex;
and a third in St. George’s-in-the-East. The new parish church of St.
Giles’s, Camberwell, building on the site of the old edifice, which
was destroyed by fire, is progressing rapidly, and will be a noble and
spacious edifice. The new church at Paddington will be a great ornament
to that neighbourhood. The University of Durham has granted 400_l._
towards the erection of a new church at South Shields. It is intended to
build a new Roman Catholic Church in the eastern part of the metropolis.
The site chosen is a large piece of ground on the south side of the
Commercial-road, and it is expected that the total cost of the edifice
and the purchase of the ground will not fall short of 30,000_l._




NOTICES.


TO ADVERTISERS.—_This first impression of Five Thousand is reserved
for sale in London and the large Provincial Towns. The next impression
of five thousand will be stamped, so as to pass post-free, and will
be circulated gratuitously on the 7th of January, 1843, amongst that
number of the nobility, gentry, clergy, professional men, and principal
tradesmen, all over the United Kingdom, according to a list which has
most generously been placed at our disposal for that purpose by a friend.
It is important, therefore, to advertisers that they should seize the
opportunity thus afforded them of a special and select notification of
their business among a class of such importance. It may be affirmed,
indeed, that a circulation of this character and amount is superior
to one of four times the number of copies dispersed at random, in
the ordinary way of sale. Additional advertisements, therefore (if
sufficient in number) will be inserted in a Supplement to accompany this
gratuitous circulation, as well as the future sale, and should be sent
to the Office at latest, on Thursday, the 5th of January. The charge
for advertisements in the Supplement will be 15s. per quarter column,
1l. 10s. per half column, and so on; smaller advertisements according
to agreement. To insure more attention to the Supplement, as well as
to secure an additional circulation for it, it will contain matter of
interest as to the progress of the first impression, correspondence, and
the like. Our prospects hitherto have been so far gratifying as to give
us confidence that the whole number of 20,000 copies of the Precursor
will be disposed of!_

       *       *       *       *       *

TO OUR READERS.—_As we do not choose to trust our own judgment on a
subject in which so many are interested besides ourselves, and as it
is so easy to obtain an opinion by which we may be guided, we think it
right in this place to invite attention to our views on the subject of
the future character of “THE BUILDER.” Before a month shall have elapsed,
at least 20,000 numbers of this paper will, in all probability, have
been circulated, and will have passed under the review of twenty times
that number of readers. They, and in particular our Building friends,
will have made up their minds as to whether “THE BUILDER” is a work to
be encouraged—it certainly is not our desire to attempt to force the
point, although we would use a little “gentle violence” to develope the
evidence—and this we may be supposed to be doing now. We have said that
there are two parties to this, as to every other question—the public and
ourselves. It is not for us to tell the public that they know nothing of
their own wants, and to attempt to force them into the belief that such a
paper as “THE BUILDER” is absolutely necessary, but unless we had taken
this step on our own responsibility, the question would have remained
undetermined. What we would ask of the Building public then is—Do you
wish to have a periodical devoted to your interests, as we propose? and
whether would you have it a Magazine and Advertiser simply, or as a
Newspaper conjoined? In the former case it might be weekly or monthly,
in the latter it must necessarily be weekly. As to the price and size:
If a Magazine and Advertiser of twelve pages of the size of our present
number, we should say 3d. the number, stamped 4d.; if a Newspaper of
sixteen pages, we do not think it could be less than 6d. Every body has
seen the_ Illustrated London News, _and allowing for difference in the
character of the illustrations (those in “THE BUILDER” being devoted
entirely to art and science), you will be able to judge of the appearance
which the latter will present. We are only anxious to undertake no
more, or, no less, than can reasonably be expected to be carried out.
If it should appear from experience of the working that more can be
accomplished, we shall most gladly acknowledge and act upon it, by either
enlarging the paper, or reducing the price. But we still think that to
conjoin the character of a Magazine and Newspaper, and at the cost of one
to give the advantages of both, will be to study the true economy of our
cause._

_The readers, therefore, have much of the settlement of the question
in their own hands—even to the influencing of the advertisers. All
advertisers look for papers of large circulation, and as advertisements
are a great means of support to a newspaper, it is evident that the more
“THE BUILDER” is supported by the mere reader, by so much the more does
it stand a chance of support from advertisers. We venture, therefore,
to speak in this business as though we were ourselves less concerned
in its issue than we really feel to be—and we urge upon our honoured
fellow-craftsmen to make this paper their own. Let it be a sign or
standard of union._

_We do not ask to have subscriptions forwarded, but we would respectfully
request to be favoured by an immediate intimation front all parties as to
their willingness to subscribe, and which they would prefer, a Magazine
alone, or Magazine and Newspaper._

_We trust it will be considered that we are pursuing a straightforward
and ingenuous course, willing to be guided by circumstances, rather than
to seek to force or control them, or to stake upon our own presumptuous
judgment that which a prudent and discreet man would say should be left
to the decision of the common voice and experience._

_Pardon us if we once more urge you to rally round “THE BUILDER.”_




ADVERTISEMENTS.


BAZAAR PANCLIBANON, 58, BAKER-STREET, PORTMAN-SQUARE.—KITCHEN
RANGES, STOVE GRATES, FURNISHING IRONMONGERY.—The stock of this vast
establishment has been renewed, with an extensive selection of every
description of domestic furniture, usually found in the ironmongery
department. Every requisite for the Kitchen, in Copper, Iron, or Tin, of
first-rate qualities, the prices being marked in plain figures, for READY
MONEY. Kitchen ranges and cooking apparatus upon approved principles,
including useful and modern improvements. The higher class of goods
comprises an enlarged assortment of register and stove grates, in steel
and black metal, with fenders and fire-irons to correspond, suitable to
drawing and dining rooms, libraries, halls, and chambers, in various
styles of ornamental embellishment now in vogue, and of improved modes of
construction, calculated to insure safety with economy.

A very large assemblage of baths, of sound make, and adapted to all
purposes of health and comfort; comprehending shower, plunge, and vapour
baths; those proper to the nursery, with hip, foot, and knee baths, and
peculiar shapes convenient for embrocation; among these enumerated, are
varieties fitted with practical improvements for the ready application
of this valuable resource to the invalid, or in cases of sudden
indisposition.

A commodious saloon has been added to receive a new stock containing
Appendages to the tea table, including papier maché and iron tea trays of
great beauty of design, and tasteful display of ornament. Tea and coffee
urns and coffee machines of the best quality, of London make, comprising
every useful improvement in those articles.

Tea services in Britannia metal, of superior quality, and in considerable
variety of shape and pattern. A costly display of plain and enriched
British plate of peculiar elegance of design and execution, chiefly work
from silver models, together with suites of spoons, tongs, and caddies,
knives and forks en suite, to which may be added table and gravy spoons,
soup ladles, fish knives, slices, with the more consequential objects
proper to the dining table. Turbot and venison dishes and covers; square,
round, and oval-corner dishes; epergnes, cruet stands, &c. &c.

The stock of wire-work is the largest in the kingdom, and comprises every
variety requisite for the hall or veranda, conservatory, terrace, or room
window. Trellis work, trainers, baskets, arches, temples, and alcoves, of
new and beautiful designs, and of first class workmanship.

Every article is plainly exhibited, with the ready money price affixed,
and warranted of the best make.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAZAAR.—SINGULARLY BEAUTIFUL HISTORICAL GROUP IN MAGNIFICENT ARMOUR.—The
splendid Royal Cot in which is the Prince of Wales with the Princess
Royal of England. The King of Prussia. Commissioner Lin and his Consort,
modelled by Lamqua, of Canton, expressly for this exhibition; the
gorgeous robes in which they are represented were actually worn by
them at the period of their sad catastrophe. George the Fourth in his
resplendent Coronation Robes, designed by himself, and executed in
crimson and blue imperial velvet, richly embroidered in gold, by eminent
artists, at an expense of 18,000_l._ This dazzling spectacle is seen in a
spacious boudoir of costly architecture, elaborately wrought in carvings
and gold, from one lately existing in the Palace of Carlton House, and is
acknowledged to be the most splendid sight ever offered to the British
public. Admittance One Shilling. Open from Eleven in the morning until
dusk, and from Seven until Ten.

Madame Tussaud and Sons’ Bazaar, Baker-street, Portman-square.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAZAAR CARRIAGE DEPARTMENT, BAKER-STREET, PORTMAN-SQUARE.—An immense
variety of every description of new and second-hand Carriages are
constantly on sale, in the spacious galleries of the Establishment, at
very reduced prices; most of the new Carriages being warranted for twelve
months. Purchasers may place the greatest reliance upon their being of
the best materials and workmanship, by highly respectable builders.
Carriages are sold by auction on the first Friday in the month, during
the season.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAZAAR SADDLERY DEPARTMENT, 58, BAKER-STREET, PORTMAN-SQUARE.—HARNESS,
SADDLERY, AND HORSE CLOTHING.—Every article manufactured in this
establishment, being sold at the lowest price, consistent with the best
quality of materials and workmanship, will be found to be 25 per cent.
under the usual trade charges.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRESERVATION FROM COLD AND WET.

HALL & CO. invite attention to their invaluable INDIA-RUBBER GOLOSHES,
which most effectually preserve the Feet from Cold and Damp, and are
neater, more durable, and cheaper than the most superior Golosh or Clog
ever before offered.

COMFORT AND EASE FOR THE FEET

Are secured by their Patent Pannus-Corrium or Leather Cloth Boots and
Shoes, as being the softest, easiest, lightest, most elastic, and
comfortable for Tender Feet, arising from whatever cause. These qualities
they retain to the last. They are also adapted to all climates, and are
as durable and cheap as those made of any other material.

Also their elastic India-rubber Spring Boots entirely supersede the use
of buttons, straps, ties, laces, or other fastenings, and afford the most
complete security and support to the ankle.

PROTECTION FROM THE STORM

Is afforded by their Portable Waterproof Dresses. The Gentleman’s Dress,
comprising Cape, Leggings, and Hood, may be conveniently deposited in the
coat-pocket. The Ladies’ Manteau Cardinal effectually shelters the person
and dress from injury, and may be folded and deposited in the reticule.
These dresses never retain moisture, and are impervious to rain, snow, or
hail.

Gentlemen’s complete Suit, One Guinea. Manteau Cardinal for Ladies, 18s.

HALL & CO., Sole Patentees, Wellington-street, Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

PATENT GAS and LAMP CHIMNEY.—COGAN’S ECONOMIC ELONGATOR, secured by
her Majesty’s Letters Patent, is superior to any hitherto introduced
to the public, produces a more brilliant light, and so effectually
prevents smoke, that Gas may now be introduced into the best-furnished
apartments, without fear or injury to its adornments. Lace-merchants,
shawl-warehousemen, and others, will find it worthy their adoption.
Common Lamps, with this simple chimney, though burning inferior oil, will
give light equal to the Solar, and without smell.

Proprietors of gas-works, gas-fitters, gas-dealers, and others, desirous
of becoming agents for the same, will please to make early application
to R. COGAN, 48, Leicester-square, where the trade may be supplied with
lamp and gas glasses, together with clock and figure shades of every
description, cheaper than at any house in London. Priced lists of nearly
100 engraved patterns of gas glasses will be sent to any part of the
kingdom by forwarding the address.

French and English fancy glass, alabaster ornaments, China shades, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

BUILDERS’ COLLEGE, LONDON.—To PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.—Mr. HANSOM,
Architect of the Birmingham Town Hall, &c. &c., has associated with
his practice an Institution to give enlarged facilities to students in
Architecture and Architectural Engineering; and to form a superior class
of Architectural Sculptors, Carvers, Modellers, &c., to be engaged in his
own office and works until competent to practise a liberal and lucrative
profession.

It has been Mr. Hansom’s study to lay down a plan for the instruction
of architectural decorators and furnishers, which shall combine the
advantages of the school, the office, and the workshop; so that general
education, professional training, and handicraft skill may be acquired
and perfected together—that the benefits of college discipline, and
residence of systematic tuition under proficient masters, of lectures and
examinations, and of constant familiarity with books, models, and works
may be united in one establishment.

Pupils are eligible at the age of fourteen and upwards, and are articled
in the usual manner as apprentices. The terms are moderate, and with
other particulars, may be known on application at the office, 27,
Foley-place, London.

    The importance of a system of education as above proposed,
    it is scarcely necessary to point out. While other callings
    and professions are crowded, those to which this Institution
    principally refers are but rarely, and in many instances,
    imperfectly practised, and the demand for proficients is every
    day wonderfully on the increase. In proof of this, we need
    only to advert to the evidences of the growing public taste,
    and to note the tone and temper of the professors and patrons
    of architecture. Witness also the ornamented character of our
    public and private edifices, the restoration of ecclesiastical
    structures, and the building of new ones, on a munificent
    scale; the late fearful ravages of fire, causing the necessity
    of a large amount of rebuilding, and leading, most probably,
    to the remodelling of most of the large cities of Europe. All
    these circumstances tell how important it is that a school
    should be founded, and a body of professors formed to fill up
    the vacuity in that section of art which lies between the mere
    constructor of buildings, and the architect and engineer who
    gives the plan of the structure.

    In fact, it is only in obedience to that law of general
    movement which characterizes these times, that the institution
    in question has had its birth—the universal voice calls
    for advance—the arts of design are to be revived, and the
    debasement of centuries cast off. Schools are being established
    under government patronage, and mechanics’ institutes were
    but a phase of progress—the thirst for knowledge has been
    stimulated, but not gratified. There remains, then, to be
    formed an institution wherein the theory and practice of art
    may accompany each other; and this is proposed by the Builders’
    College.

    Thus, while the pupil will be made familiar with the best
    examples of ancient and modern decoration by means of books,
    drawings, models, and the inspection of buildings; while he
    will be instructed in the principles of design, and in the
    science of construction upon which they depend; while he will
    be made a skilful draughtsman and colourist, he will be trained
    in the handicraft arts, so as to be able to produce the works
    themselves, the objects of his study and investigation.

    But in addition to all this, it is necessary that he learn so
    much of practical mechanics, mathematics, and of experimental
    and natural philosophy, as to be guided in his art by the
    _rationale_ which these supply. Mechanical laws and mechanical
    powers have a wide range of influence in the arts of design;
    for how shall a man embellish his work appropriately who knows
    not the former, or how economize in the use and application
    of machinery, without being conversant with the latter?
    Mathematical science, in particular as to the properties of
    figures and of numbers, is essential to him—and as to sound,
    light, and heat—as to the ventilation of buildings, supply of
    water, and drainage—as to chemical constituents and processes
    affecting the preparation, combination, and preservation of his
    materials—as to the natural fitness of metals and minerals, of
    vegetable and even animal products to be used in building—as
    to the vast suggestive sources of construction and of ornament
    that exist in the whole arcanum of nature—how, in all these
    respects, shall the pupil make efficient or rational progress;
    or how acquire a mastery of his art, unless he study and be
    made acquainted with the sciences and laws that bear upon and
    illustrate its several elements?

    History, and, indeed, general literature, as bearing upon the
    subject of his inquiries, will demand a share of his attention.
    It is not, however, to be supposed that the pupil can be
    critically or curiously learned in all these, nor, on the
    other hand, that a superficial knowledge will avail; but it is
    considered that by confining attention to the matter of each
    that strictly pertains to architecture, and by combining as
    far as possible, in one establishment, the means of pursuing an
    unbroken scheme of instruction, that the evils of a too general
    and desultory system of study, and of widely-scattered sources
    of information, will be largely remedied.

    The bringing together of a number of youths and their associate
    teachers, probably from all quarters of the world (as already
    promises to be the case); the contact of various minds,
    influenced by various national peculiarities, but all bent
    upon one comprehensive enterprise of attainment; the working
    together in the various practical development of progress,
    under practical instructors, and for practical and intelligible
    ends—these, and a number of other circumstances of a favouring
    character, must conduce to a rapid progress and an extensive
    and sound proficiency.

    And not least in the assumed merits of this Institution are the
    features pertaining to ordinary or general school education;
    the neglect of early youth may be repaired here, or the
    acquirements of that period secured, and directed to practical
    purposes; arithmetic, mensuration, book-keeping, classic
    literature, and the French, German, and Italian languages,
    which are almost essential to the education of an artist, will
    be taught in their due routine, and the facility for acquiring
    them considerably enlarged by association with students and
    tutors speaking the respective languages of their own countries.

    By uniting, therefore, the pursuit of knowledge to a strict
    system of supervision and instruction—of regular and
    fixed hours of employment and recreation, and of constant
    practical tendencies, engaging the students in the designing,
    fabricating, and applying objects of art, confiding to them at
    proper opportunities and periods the superintendence of works
    and workmen, and giving them at the same time the benefits
    of social converse with their fellows and tutors, whether
    in study, work, recreation, or refection; paying a strict
    attention to their morals, habits, and health; in fine, by
    aiming at the best practical union of the home, the school, the
    workshop, and the studio, it is hoped that a fine class of men
    may be produced, fitted to the exigencies of the times, and
    calculated to advance the arts, and do honour to their country.
    Neither is this attempt so novel or so extraordinary as it may
    seem; the history of art in former times, and the practice of
    contemporary professors abroad, give sanction to the scheme.
    It is not with every man a gift or a passion to apply himself
    to teaching in conjunction with the practice of his art, but
    some of the greatest names of antiquity and of this present
    age are associated with schools and styles, and indeed it is
    an important question to be put, as to whether the business of
    education, paramount as it is above all other business, should
    not be conducted by and confided to practical men.

    Let the groundwork be well laid in the minds of the ardent and
    generous of our young countrymen. Let their ambition to excel
    be honestly encouraged and directed. Open to them the pages of
    past history, as to the glorious and sublime achievements of
    the architects and associate artists of old, and point out to
    them the path of equal, or it may be greater distinction (for
    who shall say what mechanical and chemical science, allied
    to the inspiration of genius, may produce); and we shall no
    more hear of the complaints of inferiority, or of the want of
    original talent in the Fine Arts among our countrymen.

    It may be urged by many that this is a gigantic work, and
    should be left to the government, or a company. A moment’s
    reflection, however, will check the thought of the former in an
    English breast, and the interference of companies with objects
    of private enterprize, is, perhaps, as much to be deprecated.
    That this is a legitimate object of private enterprize, may
    be inferred from what has been already said as to ancient
    and contemporary practice. And in a matter where so much
    depends upon the bias of the heart—where fatherly care, as
    much as artistic sentiment is needed, to guide and form the
    student—where every interest of the superior is bound up with
    that of the pupil, associating the success of the former in his
    practice, with the probity and proficiency of the latter—where
    an intelligent conception of interest and duty reigns in
    the mind of the principal—these, it is presumed, offer the
    strongest guarantees of success, when other arrangements,
    through companies or co-partnerships, under boards of directors
    and managers, would be likely to fail.

    All that can be done in this respect has probably been done
    in the London University and King’s College, by appointing
    professors, instituting classes, and giving a course of
    lectures in Architecture and Engineering; or by taking the
    matter a step further as is being tried at the College of Civil
    Engineers, Putney. The rest must be accomplished in the office
    or the atelier of the professor, and in works and buildings
    conducted by him. The pupil in this case takes part in
    practical operations with an intelligible aim, and a tangible
    end. He is identified with, or interested in, their progress,
    and imbibes knowledge of a most profitable kind through
    grateful and agreeable channels.




PUBLICATIONS.


                      Just published, price 2s. 6d.

ENGLISH PATENTS; being a Register of all those granted for Inventions in
the Arts, Manufactures, Chemistry, Agriculture, &c. With copious Index.

                       By ANDREW PRITCHARD, M.R.I.

This Annual contains a register of all the patents granted in each year;
the title, date, and name of inventor; distinguishing those produced in
foreign countries from those native. Alphabetical lists both of names and
subjects being given, an easy reference is obtained.

To the manufacturer the importance of this work must be at once apparent,
as it embraces improvements in nearly every branch of art and science,
and enables him to ascertain what processes and articles he is restricted
from using or making, and the period when they become public property. To
inventors, many are the uses for which a list of this kind is available:
besides offering them a ready means of ascertaining whether others have
directed their attention to the same subjects, it enables them, if such
be the case, to determine whether the inventions are similar, or what
parts are claimed by former patentees, and whether they can secure their
invention to themselves without infringement of an existing patent.

To each annual list is appended some valuable information relating to
subjects connected with inventions. The “English Patents,” 1841, has
appended a copy of letters patent as now granted in England, by which
inventors are enabled to form some idea of the rights and privileges
they acquire by a patent. Also an abstract of the consolidated act,
which commenced its operation in September, 1842, whereby inventors or
manufacturers may secure to themselves the sole right of making and
selling, for terms not exceeding three years, any new design on articles
of manufacture, or for any novelty in the pattern, shape, configuration,
or ornament thereof. The orders of the Lords of the Treasury respecting
the charges to be made for such registrations, the names of articles
registered, &c. are given.

The “English Patents” granted in 1842 will contain, in addition to the
List and Index, some observations on foreign patents, which, it is
conceived, will be useful to inventors generally, but more especially to
those who have obtained English patents.

This Annual will be published as soon after the close of each year as the
collecting, arranging, and printing the work will permit.

                 London: Whittaker & Co. Ave-Maria-lane.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                               17, Ave-Maria-Lane, London.

Messrs. Whittaker and Co. have the pleasure to announce the recent
publication of the following Works

By Mr. ANDREW PRITCHARD.

A HISTORY of ANIMALCULES, with Five hundred Engravings. Price 5s.

MICROSCOPIC ILLUSTRATIONS: with Descriptions of the Achromatic,
Polarizing, Dissecting Microscopes, &c. with ample Instructions for use.
A new edition, enlarged, price 4s. 6d.

This work is the only practical treatise on the use of modern microscopes
extant.

MICROGRAPHIA; containing Practical Essays on the Solar and Oxyhydrogen
Microscopes, Eye-pieces, Micrometers, &c. Price 8s. 6d.

A LIST of 2,000 MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS; with Remarks. Second edition, price
1s.

MICROSCOPIC CABINET of Animated Objects, Tests, &c. Price 18s.

An important memoir on the verification of microscopic phenomena, and
another on an exact method of appreciating the quality of microscopes,
are given in this work, by Dr. Goring.

A HISTORY of INFUSORIA, Living and Fossil; with Descriptions of all the
known Species. Illustrated by 500 coloured engravings. Price 30s.

       *       *       *       *       *

New Works and Editions, published by C. Dolman, 61, New Bond-street,
London.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, in 1 vol., 12mo., price 6s. cloth, lettered,

FATHER OSWALD; a Genuine Catholic Story.

“And other sheep I have that are not of this fold: them also I must
bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold and one
Shepherd.”—John x. 16.

       *       *       *       *       *

A new edition, in 1 vol., foolscap 8vo., uniform with the Standard
Novels, price 6s.

GERALDINE; a TALE of CONSCIENCE.

By E. C. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 18mo., price 2s. cloth,

THE YOUNG COMMUNICANTS. Written for the use of the Poor School,
Bermondsey, and respectfully dedicated to the Rev. Peter Butler, by the
Authoress of “Geraldine, a Tale of Conscience,” with the approbation of
the Right Rev. Dr. Griffiths, V.A.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, price 1s. 6d., cloth, lettered,

A new elementary Work on Geography, for the use of Schools, entitled

THE JUVENILE COMPANION to the ATLAS, with some Historical Notices.

“A book of greater practical utility to the young we have seldom seen.
We recommend it with confidence to all who are engaged in rudimental
instruction.”—Catholic, Oct. 22.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 18mo., price 1s.

A CATECHISM of the HISTORY of ENGLAND, for the use of Schools. By a Lady.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, 8vo., cloth lettered, with 315 Woodcuts, price 15s., The First
Volume of

TURNING AND MECHANICAL MANIPULATION. By CHARLES HOLTZAPFFEL, Associate
of the Institution of Civil Engineers. The work, which will be completed
in Five Vols., is intended as a work of General Reference and Practical
Instruction on the Lathe and the various Mechanical pursuits followed by
Amateurs.

Each volume may be purchased separately, and will form a distinct
treatise on the branch to which it is appropriated. Vol. I. treats of
materials from the vegetable, animal, and mineral kingdoms; their uses in
the mechanical arts; modes of severally preparing, working, and joining
the materials; with the practical description of a variety of processes,
which do not generally require the use of tools with cutting edges.—Vol.
II. (to be published in April, 1843) will treat of cutting tools and
abrasive processes.—Vol. III., the complete practice of hand or simple
turning.—Vol. IV., practice of ornamental or complex turning.—Vol. V.,
practice of amateur engineering.

Published by Holtzapffel & Co., 64, Charing Cross, and 127, Long Acre,
London, and to be had of all booksellers.

                        Prospectuses free by post.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRITISH CHILD’S SPELLING-BOOK, for the use of Children of the various
Christian denominations. By HENRY JAMES. Price 1s.

This judicious little book is divided into seven parts. The 1st consists
of tables of words from one to seven syllables, accompanied with many
easy lessons; 2. Lessons in natural history; 3. Fables and tales, which
are pointed with some important moral, and interwoven with some just
maxims of conduct; 4. Simple and tasteful poetry; while 5, 6, and 7
comprise introductions to geography, English grammar, &c.

                           By the same Author,
                          RHETORICAL CLASS-BOOK.

                           Price 3s. 6d. bound.

                        John Limbird, 143, Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR ALL FAMILIES.

Just published, 5th edition, price 5s., cloth,

FAMILY MANUAL AND SERVANTS’ GUIDE, with upwards of One Thousand New and
Approved Receipts, arranged and adapted for Families and all classes of
Servants.

“We shall recommend this book everywhere, if it were only for the
sake of the excellent suggestions on the ‘self-improvement’ of house
servants.”—Gardener’s Magazine.

“It should find a place in the kitchen or servants’ hall of those who
desire to blend comfort with elegance, and prudence with luxury.”—New
Monthly Magazine.

“No servant should be without it.”—Morning Advertiser.

J. Limbird, 143, Strand, London, and all booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELF-INSTRUCTING LATIN CLASSIC; whereby a perfect knowledge of the
Latin Language may be readily acquired, without burdening the memory with
the multifarious rules of syntactical Grammar, the searching a Dictionary
for the interpretation of words, or even requiring the assistance of a
Classical Tutor. By W. JACOBS. In Twelve Parts, at 1s. each; or in Two
Volumes, price 7s. each.

By the same Author,

THE MYSTERIES OF THE LATIN LANGUAGE REVEALED;

Or, Remarks shewing that it can be read and understood without being
confined to the forms of government of grammatical construction: and
proved by verbatim translations of passages from fourteen of the standard
Poetical and Prose Latin Classics. 4s. In 12 Parts, at 6d. or complete,
7s. cloth (10 Parts are now ready),

BACCHUS:

An Essay on the Nature, Causes, Effects, and Cure of Intemperance. By R.
B. GRIMDROD, LL.D.

In 6 Parts, at 1s. each, or complete, 7s. cloth,

COMPLETE GUIDE to the FINE ARTS.

Part 1. contains the whole Art of Oil Painting.

Part 2.—Drawing and Sketching from Nature.

Part 3.—Drawing in Perspective.

Part 4.—Miniature Painting, Grecian or Persian Painting.

Part 5.—Engraving on Wood and Copper, and Lithographic Drawing.

Part 6.—Painting in Water Colours, Flower Painting, Oriental Tinting, &c.

W. Brittain, 11, Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAGE BIRDS; a Description, and Habits of each Species; directions for
keeping; best modes of prevention and cure of the several distempers to
which they are subject, with every particular to keep them in full and
rich melody of song. By T. ANDREWES. Price 1s.

Also, 6th edition of

PLAIN INSTRUCTIONS for the Breeding, Rearing, and Management of the
CANARY FINCH, With practical hints and receipts for its domestication. By
JOSEPH SMITH. Price 1s.

John Limbird, 143, Strand, and sold by all booksellers and dealers in
birds in the metropolis.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 1st January will be published, price 1s. 6d., the first Number of
a new series of

THE ARCHITECT, ENGINEER, AND SURVEYOR, or London Monthly Journal of the
Engineering and Practical Sciences, and of Architecture and the Fine
Arts, containing a great variety of papers, by able practical men, on all
subjects connected with the professions.

N.B. The third volume of the above work is just published, price 18s.,
and, with Vols. I. and II., may be had of all Booksellers.

London: Bell and Wood, 186, Fleet-street.




WORKS WRITTEN OR EDITED BY J. C. LOUDON, F.L.S., &c., And Published on
his account by Longman and Co.


Just published, complete in 1 vol. price 2_l._ 10s. and in Parts at 5s.
each,

AN ENCYCLOPÆDIA of TREES and SHRUBS; being the Arboretum et Fruticetum
Britannicum abridged, for the use of Nurserymen, Gardeners, and Foresters.

The abridgment of the Arboretum et Fruticetum Britannicum contains:—

1. Characters and short popular descriptions of all the species and
varieties of hardy trees and shrubs now in British gardens, with
directions for their culture; including the soil most suitable for them,
their propagation, and their uses in the arts, and more especially in
landscape-gardening and profitable planting.

2. Engravings of all the species which are described, to one and the same
scale, of which a figure, 1, a beautiful new species of Cytisus (Cytisus
Weldenii), and fig. 2, a species of pine from Mexico (Pinus Teocotes),
are here given as specimens.

3. The scientific names and scientific synonymes of all the species, and
their popular names in the languages of the different countries where
they are indigenous or cultivated.

4. An alphabetical index to all the species and varieties, with their
synonymes.

5. A tabular analysis of the leaves, by which the name of any species of
tree or shrub described in the work may, in general, be discovered, from
a small portion of a shoot with the leaves on.

6. Specific characters, descriptions, and figures of some species, more
particularly of pines, firs, and oaks, which were not in the country in
1838, when the large work was completed.

7. An analysis of the commoner trees and shrubs of Britain, with
reference to their uses in plantations, useful or ornamental, their
adaptation for particular soils and situations, their flowers and time of
flowering, &c. &c.

In a word, though this abridgment does not include all the interesting
and useful information on the natural history of trees which will be
found in the larger work, or any of the portraits of entire trees which
constitute so distinguished a feature in it, yet it contains all that is
necessary to enable the reader to discover the names of the different
species, and to ascertain their culture, propagation, and uses in
Britain; in short, all that is essential for the nurseryman, gardener,
and forester.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published in July, 1838, price 10_l._ cloth lettered,

The ARBORETUM FRUTICETUM et BRITANNICUM;

In 8 vols.: four of letter-press, illustrated by above 2500 engravings,
and four of octavo and quarto plates.

This work is in three divisions:—

I. The history of the introduction of trees and shrubs into Britain, and
the history and geography of the trees and shrubs of temperate climates
throughout the world; shewing the trees and shrubs which are already in
the country, and those which yet remain to be introduced. This occupies
250 pages of vol. I.

II. A description of all the trees and shrubs, hardy and half-hardy,
cultivated in Britain; in which is given their history, geography, uses,
propagation, culture, diseases, insects, mosses, lichens, fungi, &c.,
occupying the remaining part of vol. I. and the whole of vols. II., III.,
and IV.

III. Portraits of trees of from ten to twelve years’ growth, of which the
accompanying figure of the Chilian pine (Araucaria imbricata) may serve
as a specimen, growing within ten miles of London, all drawn to the same
scale of one inch to four feet, and accompanied by botanical specimens
of their winter’s wood, leaves, flowers, and fruit, all drawn to the
scale of one-sixth of an inch to a foot. Besides the young trees, there
are portraits of full-grown trees of all the more important species,
in order to shew the character which they assume when of mature age.
Some of these are drawn in foliage, of which a figure of the Cyprus
of Mistra, the largest cyprus in the world, is given as a specimen;
and others, taken in winter, when divested of their foliage, of which
the accompanying figure of the common Beech (Fagus sylvatica) is an
illustration. These are drawn to a scale of one inch to twelve feet. This
mode of giving portraits of trees and botanical specimens to a fixed
scale, has been adopted in “The Arboretum Britannicum” for the first
time, and it gives that work a decided superiority over all previous
publications on the same subject. This division of the work occupies
vols. V., VI., VII., and VIII.

The first four volumes of “The Arboretum” are illustrated with upwards
of 2500 engravings, chiefly of botanical specimens, but including also
insects, fungi, engravings of the leaves of the natural size of all the
species of several genera, portraits of remarkable trees or shrubs (such
as Johnson’s willow, the cypress of Soma, &c.); nearly fifty remarkable
oaks, above ten remarkable yew trees, the king and queen beeches at
Ashridge, and many other remarkable beech trees, remarkable elms, ashes,
poplars, pines, firs, &c. &c.; portraits, taken during winter, to shew
the effect of the different deciduous trees at that season; landscapes,
exhibiting the effect of the particular kinds of trees, when employed
by the landscape-gardener, in combination with other trees, or with
buildings; ground-plans, shewing the mode of laying out and planting
arboretums, fruticetums, cricacetums, rosariums, &c.; diagrams, shewing
trellises and other structures for training climbing shrubs, the mode
of forming fences of particular shrubs, of making baskets, &c., of
willow-rods, of forming surface drains for arboretums, of sawing up
timber for sale, as practised in Norway, &c. &c. In short, the work
embraces every part of the subject of the study of the hardy trees and
shrubs of Britain.

Bayswater, near London, December 1842.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published July 1, 1838, in 1 vol. 8vo. price 7s. 6d.

The HORTUS LIGNOSUS LONDINENSIS;

Or, a Catalogue of all the Ligneous Plants, hardy and half-hardy,
cultivated in the neighbourhood of London; with their Native Country,
Habit, Habitation in a state of Culture, and the Prices of Plants and
Seeds in British and Foreign Nurseries.

“To nurserymen and gardeners generally, the ‘Lignosus Londinensis’ will
be found an extremely useful book.”—Floricultural Magazine, Vol. III. p.
139.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published May 1, 1842, price 3s. 6d.

The HORTUS LIGNOSUS LONDINENSIS ABRIDGED;

Or, a Catalogue of the Hardy Trees and Shrubs, indigenous and foreign,
cultivated in the Gardens and Grounds in the neighbourhood of London,
with all their Synonymes, and a complete Alphabetical Index.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published October 1, 1839, in 1 vol. 8vo. with upwards of 250 Engravings,
price 1_l._ 10s. and 3_l._ 6s. coloured,

REPTON’S LANDSCAPE GARDENING;

Being the whole Works on Landscape-Gardening and Landscape-Architecture
of the late Humphry Repton, Esq.; with a Biographical Notice, and Notes
by J. C. Loudon, F.L.S., &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published May 1, 1842, in One very thick Volume, 8vo. of above 1300
pages, with 2000 Engravings on Wood, price 3_l._ 3s. bound in cloth.

AN ENCYCLOPÆDIA OF COTTAGE, FARM, and VILLA ARCHITECTURE and FURNITURE;
containing Designs for Cottages, Villas, Farm-houses, Farmeries, Wind and
Water Corn Mills; Cider Mills, Lime, Malt, and Hop Kilns, Country Inns,
Public-houses, Parochial Schools, &c., with the requisite Fittings-up,
Fixtures, and Furniture, and appropriate Offices, Gardens, and Garden
Scenery; each Design accompanied by Analytical and Critical Remarks,
illustrative of the Principles of Architectural Science and Taste on
which it is composed, and General Estimates of the Expense.

A new edition, corrected, with a Supplement, containing above 160
additional pages of letterpress, and nearly 300 new engravings, bringing
down the work to 1842.

The New Supplement separately, 7s. 6d. sewed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Complete in Five Volumes, 8vo. with numerous Engravings on Wood, price
6_l._ 6s.

The ARCHITECTURAL MAGAZINE;

Being a Collection of popular Articles on Architecture, Building, and
Furnishing.

“We strongly recommend the ‘Architectural Magazine,’ as pregnant
with interest and instruction, both to the architect and the general
reader.”—Times, Feb. 2, 1839.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published on August 1, 1838, in 1 vol. 8vo., with numerous Engravings,
price 20s.

The SUBURBAN GARDENER and VILLA COMPANION;

Comprising the choice of a Suburban or Villa Residence, or of a situation
on which to form one; the Arrangement and Furnishing of the House; and
the Laying out, Planting, and general Management of the Garden and
Grounds; the whole adapted for Grounds from One Perch to Fifty Acres and
upwards in extent, and intended for the instruction of those who know
little of Gardening and rural affairs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published on November 1, 1842, in 1 vol. 8vo. with upwards of 380
Engravings, price 16s.

The SUBURBAN HORTICULTURIST;

Or, an Attempt to teach the Science of Horticulture, and the Management
of the Fruit, Kitchen, and Forcing Garden, to persons who have had no
previous knowledge or experience in these departments.

[This work is published by William Smith, 113, Fleet-street.]

       *       *       *       *       *

In Monthly Numbers, 8vo. price 1s. 6d. each,

The GARDENER’S MAGAZINE.

Any Number or Volume published subsequently to 1834 may be purchased
separately. The Second Series, consisting of Six Volumes, from 1835 to
1840 inclusive, may be had for 6_l._ 8s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1 vol. post 8vo. price 8s.

WATERTON’S ESSAYS on NATURAL HISTORY;

With an Autobiography of the Author.

“A most valuable work for farmers and gardeners, on account of the
information which it contains respecting birds, the mole, the mouse, the
rat, and beetles, snails, slugs, and worms.”—Gardener’s Magazine, 1839.

[Illustration: Fig. 1. _Cytisus Weldenii._]

[Illustration: Fig. 2. _Pinus Teocote._]

[Illustration: Fig. 3. _Araucaria imbricata._]

[Illustration: Fig. 4. _The Cypress of Misira_ (_Cupressus
horizontalis._)]

[Illustration: Fig. 5. _Singular inosculation of the common beech_
(_Fagus sylvatica._)]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _A Road-side Public-house, from a design by J. W. Wild,
Esq., in the Supplement to the Encyclopædia._]

[Illustration: _A Gate Lodge, by R. Varden, Esq., also from the
Supplement._]

Just published, in royal 4to., price 1_l._ 15s. bound,

RUSTIC ARCHITECTURE.—Picturesque Decorations of Rural Buildings in
the Use of Rough Wood, Thatch, &c. Illustrated by Forty-two Drawings;
consisting of Plans, Elevations, Sections, and Perspective Views; the
Doors, Windows, Chimney Shafts, &c., drawn Geometrically to a large
scale; with Descriptions and estimated Costs.

By T. J. RICAUTI, Architect.

“We have repeatedly and strongly recommended this elegant and useful
work, and can safely say, that we think no gentleman who purchases it
will be disappointed.”—Loudon’s Gardener’s Magazine.

James Carpenter, Old Bond-street.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAWRENCE & CO., 55, PARLIAMENT-STREET, WESTMINSTER, and 10, YORK-PLACE,
LAMBETH, Successors to the Patentees and Manufacturers in Zinc to her
Majesty the Queen Dowager. Original makers of Malleable Zinc Drawers, of
Tubes, and Sash-bars. Perforated Zinc for Larders, Safes, and Blinds.
Roofs and Verandahs covered with Zinc Rain Pipes, Chimney Pipes, Cowls,
&c. Gutters, Ridges, and Sky Lights. Baths and Zinc Door-plates. N.B. The
Trade supplied.

       *       *       *       *       *

KEENE’S PATENT MARBLE CEMENT.—This cement, which exceeds every other in
hardness, is intended for interior uses, where strength and despatch
in execution are required. From the smoothness of its surface, it is
an advantageous substitute for wood in its application to skirtings,
architrave, mouldings, &c., as it resists the action of fire, and keeps
back vermin.

The coarse qualities form a paving not distinguishable from stone in
colour and hardness, but of one-third the price. The best white quality
takes a brilliant polish, and the scagliola made from this cement has
a peculiar richness of colouring. The imitations produced in it of
Florentine and other Mosaics, encaustic tiles, &c., for ornamental
paving, are unequalled in their effect and moderate cost.

Keene’s Cement has been applied with success for the altars of Catholic
and other churches, both in England and Ireland; and to its use in the
royal palaces and government buildings, besides numerous and private
works, the patentees can refer with confidence.

Patentees and Sole Manufacturers, J. B. White and Sons, Milbank-street,
Westminster.

Agents for its sale are appointed in the principal cities of the United
Kingdom.

       *       *       *       *       *

WESTMINSTER MARBLE FACTORY, EARL STREET, HORSEFERRY ROAD, WESTMINSTER.

The Trade Supplied on advantageous Terms with Slabs and Chimney-Pieces,
and a large assortment always kept on view in their extensive Show-Rooms.

[Illustration: ESTABLISHED 1809.]

The public is respectfully informed that the Proprietors of the
Westminster Marble Factory have made considerably more extensive and most
important improvements in the Working and Polishing Marble by Steam Power
at the above Factory, so that every variety of Marble Work is executed
in a superior style, hitherto unprecedented in this country, and at such
reduced prices as greatly facilitate its use in the decoration of public
and private buildings for the following useful and ornamental purposes:—

Marble Staircases, Door Jambs, Linings for Rooms, Columns, Chimney
Pieces, Wash-hand Tables, Monuments, Tablets, Mortars, Tombs,
Door-plates, Baths, Pavements, Slabs for Dairies, &c.

They respectfully solicit a trial from those whose consumption is
considerable, as they will realize an immense saving by forwarding
their orders to this Establishment. Much attention will be devoted to
the interests of Architects, Builders, and Cabinet Makers, to execute
their orders in a style entirely unequalled. An unabated zeal will be
maintained to continue the patronage so liberally bestowed by men of
business.

Caution.—It having been recently discovered that orders intended for
this Company have been surreptitiously obtained, and executed by others
at a higher price than they charge, it is particularly requested that
future orders be addressed to the Westminster Marble Company’s Factory,
Earl-street, Horseferry-road, Millbank, Westminster.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO BUILDERS, PAINTERS, GLAZIERS, and OTHERS.—The cheapest House for Crown
and Sheet Window Glass, Milled Lead, Colours, &c.

    Best Lead   24s. per cwt.
    Sheet Lead  21s.   —
    Linseed Oil  3s. per gal.
    Turps        3s.   —

Complete lists of glass, colours, lead, &c., priced, will be forwarded to
any part of the United Kingdom, by applying to R. COGAN, at the Western
Glass, Lead, and Colour Warehouse, 5, Princes-street, Leicester-square,
London. R. C. begs at the same time to assure his numerous friends in
the country, as well as in town, that his trade being exclusively for
cash, he is enabled to supply goods in most cases 20 per cent. lower
than charged by other houses. An inquiry by post will be immediately
answered, and a one pound order, accompanied by a Post-office cheque for
the amount, will receive equal attention, and be executed with the same
despatch as one of a wholesale description.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO NOBLEMEN, GENTLEMEN, AND OTHERS.—R. TURNER and Co. beg to lay before
the Public in general their newly-invented Apparatuses for heating
purposes, where artificial heat is required, by steam, hot water, or hot
air. Also ironing-stoves, hot plates, and portable stoves of various
sizes, for general purposes; at the very lowest price possible, for cash
only. All goods sent out from their establishment are warranted.

                         Your obedient servants,

                                                         R. TURNER and Co.

164, Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, DECORATORS, AND SHIP BUILDERS.

PAPIER MACHE ENRICHMENTS, adapted to every Style for Architectural
and Ornamental Purposes; comprising Centre Flowers for Ceilings and
Ventilators, enriched Mouldings, Friezes, Pateras, Brackets, Trusses,
Gothic Bosses, Corbels, Tracery, &c., in great variety, to be had at
Brelefeld’s Papier Maché Works, 15, Wellington-street North, Strand.

Tea Trays in every variety of elegant designs.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENVELOPES, from the best Paper, and well made, 9d. the 100. Envelope
Cases in great variety, plain and illuminated, from 6s. each. Blotting
Books, from 1s. each. An extensive assortment of Albums, in plain and
elegant bindings. A Box to hold Miscellaneous Music, elegantly bound,
for 5s. 6d. A Travelling Writing Desk, 10 inches, 15s. 6d.; 12 inches,
16s. 6d.; 14 inches, 18s. Writing Papers, plain and gilt, 4d., 6d., 8d.,
10d., and 1s., the quire. Note Papers, at 3d., 4d., and 6d. the quire, at
LIMBIRD’S STATIONERY and MUSIC WAREHOUSE, 143, Strand, opposite Catherine
Street, near Somerset House.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: GILLOTT’S PENS.]

[Illustration]

_Steel Pen Manufacturer in Ordinary to Her Majesty._

JOSEPH GILLOTT’S very superior PATENT and other METALLIC PENS may be had
of all Stationers, Booksellers, and other Dealers in Pens throughout the
United Kingdom.

The great superiority of these Pens, and the Public’s approbation, is
attested by the continually increasing demand for them, and their entire
adoption at the Bank of England, and Her Majesty’s Public Offices, where,
it is known, the best articles only are admitted.

NUMBER OF PENS MANUFACTURED AT THE WORKS OF JOSEPH GILLOTT.

    FROM OCT. 1837, to OCT. 1838,
          was 35,808,452
          or   2,984,037 dozen
          or     248,669 gross

    FROM OCT. 1838, to OCT. 1839,
          was 44,654,702
          or   3,721,225 dozen
          or     310,102 gross

    FROM DEC. 1840, to DEC. 1841,
          was 62,126,928
          or   5,177,244 dozen
          or     431,437 gross

These Pens are made in every variety, suitable for the MEDICAL and LEGAL
PROFESSIONS, BANKING, MERCANTILE, and GENERAL PURPOSES, and for SCHOOLS.

[Illustration]

It is requisite to state, as a general “CAUTION,” that the name, “JOSEPH
GILLOTT,” is marked in full on EVERY GENUINE PEN, and Vendors are desired
to note that his Cards of Pens are made up in Packets of One Dozen each,
and have a label outside, with a fac-simile of his Signature.

The Genuine GILLOTT’S PENS may usually be obtained at the regular
dealers’ shops at as low prices as are generally demanded by itinerant
dealers, and others, for those very inferior articles which are
frequently palmed upon the Public as the real GILLOTT’S PENS.

☞ At the request of Persons extensively engaged in Tuition, J. G. has
introduced his WARRANTED SCHOOL PENS, which are especially adapted to
their use, being of different degrees of flexibility, and with FINE,
MEDIUM, and BROAD POINTS.

WHOLESALE AND FOR EXPORTATION AT THE WAREHOUSE, 95, NEW-STREET,
BIRMINGHAM, ALSO AT 37, GRACECHURCH-STREET, LONDON,

Under the Management of Mr. FOX, from the Manufactory, or from any of the
WHOLESALE STATIONERS and MERCHANTS in London, &c.

The great superiority of these Pens has induced their entire adoption in
the Bank of England and Her Majesty’s Public Offices, where it is known
none but the best articles are admitted: such as the Home and Foreign
Offices, the Admiralty and other Public Boards, the Offices of the India
Board, the various Offices at Somerset-House, the British Museum Library,
&c., the General Post-Office, and others; as well as by a large number of
Bankers, Merchants, and Manufacturers, throughout the Country, and many
Public and Private Schools.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAUTION TO FAMILIES.

The high reputation of, and consequent great demand for the
undermentioned Preparations, have excited the cupidity of some
SHOPKEEPERS of apparent respectability, but destitute alike of honour
and of talent, who, for the sake of gaining a trifle more profit, basely
attempt to impose their pernicious compounds upon the public as the real
“MACASSAR OIL” for the Hair, and “KALYDOR” for the Complexion; they copy
the bills and labels of the original articles, substituting either a
FICTITIOUS NAME or the word “GENUINE” in the place of “ROWLAND’S.”

To frustrate such imposition—it is necessary on purchasing either
article, to see that the word “ROWLAND’S” is on the wrapper, as follows,
without which None are Genuine.

ROWLAND’S MACASSAR OIL,

for the Growth, and for Beautifying the Human Hair.

Price 3s. 6d.; 7s.; or Family Bottles (equal to four small), 10s. 6d.;
and double that size, 21s. per bottle.

ROWLAND’S KALYDOR,

for the Skin and Complexion.—Price 4s. 6d. and 8s. 6d. per bottle.

ROWLAND’S ODONTO,

Or PEARL DENTRIFICE,

renders the Teeth beautifully White, and preserves the Gums.

Price 2s. 9d. per box, duty included.

A. ROWLAND & SON, 20, HATTON GARDEN, LONDON,

is written in red on the wrappers of the MACASSAR OIL and KALYDOR, and
engraven on the Government Stamp affixed on the KALYDOR and the ODONTO.

Be sure to ask for “ROWLAND’S” Articles. Sold by them and by respectable
Chemists and Perfumers.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMPOSITION FOR WRITING WITH STEEL PENS.

STEPHENS’ WRITING FLUID.

THESE COMPOSITIONS, which have so remarkably extended the use of the
STEEL PEN, are brought to very great perfection, being more easy to write
with, more durable, and in every respect preferable to the ordinary Ink.
In warm climates they have become essential—they consist of:—

A BLUE FLUID, changing to an intense Black colour.

PATENT UNCHANGEABLE BLUE FLUIDS, remaining a deep Blue colour.

A SUPERIOR BLACK INK, of the common character, but more fluid.

A SUPERIOR CARMINE RED for Contrast Writing.

A CARBONACEOUS RECORD INK, unchangeable by any Chemical Agent.

Also a new kind of MARKING INK for Linen: and Inkholders adapted for
preserving Ink from Evaporation or Dust.

Bottles at 3d. each, convenient for writing from are prepared, which will
enable those who may wish to try either of these articles to do so at a
small expense.

Prepared by HENRY STEPHENS, the Inventor, 54, Stamford-street,
Blackfriars-road, London, and sold by Stationers and Booksellers.

N.B. These unchangeable Blue Fluids are Patent articles; the Public are
therefore cautioned against imitations, which are infringements: to sell
or use which is illegal.

STEPHENS’ SELECT STEEL PENS.

The utmost possible care having been bestowed upon the manufacture
of these articles, so as to procure the highest finish, they can be
confidently recommended both for flexibility and durability.

       *       *       *       *       *

DAGUERREOTYPE OR PHOTOGRAPHIC PORTRAITS.

PORTRAITS by Mr. CLAUDET’S INSTANTANEOUS PROCESS, under the Patronage of
her Majesty, are taken daily at the ADELAIDE GALLERY, LOWTHER ARCADE,
STRAND. The Sitting generally occupies less than One Second, by which
faithful and pleasing Likenesses are obtained, with backgrounds, the
patented invention of Mr. Claudet, representing Landscapes, the Interior
of a Library, &c. &c.

Price of a Single Portrait, usual size, One Guinea. Portraits and Groups
are also taken on Plates of an enlarged size, and for Lockets or Brooches
as small as may be required.

       *       *       *       *       *

PATENT PLATE GLASS.

The Patent Plate Glass is equal in appearance to the British Plate Glass,
and at about one-half its cost.

SHEET WINDOW GLASS,

For Conservatories, Dwelling Houses, &c.

The SHEET WINDOW GLASS is particularly recommended for Conservatories,
Garden Frames, Skylights, and all purposes where strength is required.
Lights may be glazed with panes from twenty to fifty inches in length,
without liability of breakage from hail or trivial accidents.

PAINTED GLASS,

In the ancient or modern style, from the most simple to the richest
designs. Ruby and other Coloured Glass equal to the ancient.

GLASS SHADES,

Round, Oval, or Square, for the preservation of Clocks, Alabaster
Ornaments, Minerals, &c. &c.

Sold, Wholesale and Retail, by CLAUDET & HOUGHTON, at their PLATE,
CROWN, SHEET, FLUTED, and PAINTED WINDOW GLASS and GLASS SHADE WAREHOUSE,
89, HIGH HOLBORN, where Lists of Prices may be had.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

CORY’S POWDERS FOR CHILDREN

Are recommended to mothers and nurses, not only as a remedy, but as
a preventative in all cases of teething, measles, scarlet fever,
hooping-cough, small-pox, convulsions from worms and teething, wasting
of the limbs, jaundice, fits, diarrhœa, chicken-pox, thrush, &c. The
above complaints are invariably preceded by a pettishness of temper,
accompanied by costiveness, and a greater or less degree of fever. To
these little ailments attention should be particularly directed, for
it is in this stage that these powders will commonly prevent further
progress of disorder, by promoting healthy secretion of the skin, liver,
stomach, and bowels.

                           PREPARED AND SOLD BY
                               WM. H. CORY,
                           SURGEON-APOTHECARY,
                      20, EARL-STREET, BLACKFRIARS,

And may be had of most respectable Medicine Vendors throughout the
Kingdom, in packets at 1s. 1½d., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d., and in tin cases for
exportation, 1_l._ 1s. duty included. Each packet has the signature of
Wm. H. Cory on the Government stamp, without which none are genuine.

Orders by post attended to.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: PLATOW’S PATENT AUTOMATON COFFEE URN.]

This invention makes Coffee of the finest quality, preserving that
delicate aroma which is scarcely known to English Coffee-drinkers,
owing to the imperfect methods of making the beverage practised in this
country. By a simple self-acting process, which cannot err, the Automaton
enables the most inexperienced person to produce Coffee as excellent in
flavour as the most skilful can prepare. Sold in all metals and of all
sizes, so as to be used either for private Families or Hotels, and either
with a Lamp or on the fire.

Sold by PLATOW & CO., 145, High Holborn.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEFT-OFF CLOTHES, REGIMENTALS, &c., WANTED.—PEARSON’S established
warehouse, 2, Lamb’s Conduit-street. Gentlemen having any quantity, large
or small, of left-off wearing apparel, military, naval, theatrical, and
costume of any nation, the utmost value in ready money given, or new
clothes made in exchange. Apply personally, or by letter, to Stephen
Pearson, 2, Lamb’s Conduit-street. Distance no object. Ladies’ apparel
purchased. Books taken on the same terms.

Officers and gentlemen arriving from India will find this an excellent
mode of disposing of their equipments for ready money, or clothes in
exchange.

Theatrical dresses made to order.

       *       *       *       *       *

OROPHOLITHE is a composition, which being impervious to wet, and
proof against atmospheric action, is peculiarly adapted for roofs
and floorings. It is also a substitute for oil-cloth, a covering for
terraces, for wainscoting, and from its portability, for emigrants’
houses. It is light, durable, and very considerably cheaper than
any material such as zinc, lead, or oil-cloth, for which it may be
substituted with great advantage. A temporary small house and other
specimens may be seen at the Manufactory, 1, Gough-street North, near
Calthorpe-street, Gray’s-Inn Road.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LONDON MARBLE AND STONE WORKING COMPANY, Esher-street,
Hollywell-street, Millbank, Westminster (established 1821), are enabled,
with their Patent Machinery, to execute Chimney-pieces, Monuments,
Tablets, Slabs for Furniture, and every description of such work, with
an accuracy, rapidity of execution, beauty and durability of polish, and
reduction of cost, which cannot be obtained elsewhere. The public are
invited to inspect their extensive Show-rooms, containing the largest
stock in this country. The trade supplied with every description of Rough
Slab Blocks or Scantlings; or Blocks sent to the works cut to order.

Please to be accurate in copying the address, to prevent imposition, the
Company having no connection with any other establishment but that in
Esher-street.

       *       *       *       *       *

By Her Majesty’s Royal Letters Patent.

[Illustration]

THE PATENT RAMONEUR[3] ASSOCIATION, FOR PROMOTING THE SWEEPING OF
CHIMNEYS BY MACHINERY.—CENTRAL OFFICE, 34, FOLEY-PLACE, PORTLAND-PLACE.

[3] From the French verb “Ramoner,” to sweep.

In consequence of an Act passed August 7, 1840, intituled, “An Act for
the Regulation of Chimney-sweepers and Chimneys,” by which it is enacted,
“That from and after the first of July, 1842, any person who shall compel
or knowingly allow any child or young person, under the age of twenty-one
years, to ascend or descend a chimney or enter a flue for the purpose
of sweeping, cleaning, or coring the same, or for extinguishing a fire
therein, shall be liable to a penalty of not more than ten pounds, or
less than five pounds,”—all chimneys from henceforth must be cleaned and
swept by machinery.

This Association of gentlemen has its origin in an earnest desire to
promote a cause which has long occupied the attention of the warmest
friends of humanity, and to give decided and practical effect to the
provisions of the above-mentioned Act of Parliament.

In responding to the call of humanity, by the entire abolition of the
unseemly and afflicting practice of cleansing chimneys by the direct
agency of the Living Infant Sweeper, the authority of the Legislature
has been exercised to confer a public benefit, in the abatement of an
evil of great magnitude, and a fruitful source of lasting misery. It only
remains that the detail of minor arrangements be carried out in the way
that may seem the best adapted to perfecting the working of the Act, and
accomplish the requisite changes, consistently with the public sense of
fitness and propriety.

This Association, therefore, brings before the country an efficacious
means of obviating, for the future, the necessity or any approach to
the evils of the old system, in accordance with the general feeling and
opinion on the subject, and in strict and active furtherance of the law
as it now stands.

The considerations which the Association desire to lay before the public
arrange themselves under the following general heads:—

    The well-known and acknowledged difficulty and danger of the
    old process, and the dangerous exposure and risk to property,
    in large masses, from the imperfect performance of former
    methods.

    The harsh, not to say hard and cruel, treatment of the infant
    sweeper, from a necessity (in a certain degree, perhaps)
    inseparable from the nature of the old process, and the effects
    of prescriptive custom, as exercised by unenlightened masters.

    The unerring and perfect performance of the Association’s new
    Machinery, coupled with its simplicity of construction, its
    great effective power, and its ease of management.

    The great importance of its certain effect in the immediate
    extinction of accidental fire in chimneys.

    The great practical economy effected to the public through
    the perfect operation of the Machines, and the consequent
    incalculable increase of convenience in the domestic
    arrangements,—as all the chimneys of a house can be perfectly
    swept at one visit, in much less time than is now required;
    with a guaranteed security, for the due performance of the
    specific duty undertaken, and against injury or loss from
    carelessness, mismanagement, or depredation.

    The Association has also in view the very important objects
    of affording complete relief to the entire class of sweeping
    adults and children, by elevating them from their present
    degraded and enslaved condition to the rank of well-ordered,
    decently-appointed, and justly-paid workmen.

    The date of each application for sweeping chimneys in a
    house, and of the execution of the order, with the names of
    the workmen employed, will be entered in the books of the
    Association, at their principal office, 34, Foley-place: thus
    affording satisfactory proof, in cases of fire, of the chimneys
    having been properly swept, where the cause of fire may be the
    subject of legal controversy; and preventing any disposition
    on the part of the labourer to commit petty offences, from the
    absolute certainty of immediate detection.

The PATENT RAMONEUR ASSOCIATION, to carry out these great objects, have
appointed respectable persons as Agents to receive orders; and will
employ workmen of known good character, provided with suitable dresses
to carry on the operation; giving them thus a cleaner and more decent
appearance, when not absolutely employed at work, than is at present
witnessed; and who, in lieu of the scanty and precarious pittance
hitherto allowed them, will receive wages of sufficient amount to afford
them the comforts and secure to them the self-respect enjoyed by other
mechanical labourers.

The Association beg to inform the Nobility, Gentry, and Public, that,
under these arrangements, on application being made at the Central
Office, a workman and assistant will attend with the Machine, and,
if necessary at the first trial, the Superintendent will himself be
present at the operation. The usual rate charged for each chimney, under
the old system of Machinery, will not be exceeded; and should it be
desired, houses may be contracted for by the year, on the same terms as
heretofore; no extra charge being made for machinery, or for the greater
convenience, cleanliness, and security of property, afforded by the
arrangements of the Association.

                                                 W. S. TROTTER, Secretary.

        Superintendent, Mr. W. Speller, 30, Berkeley-street West,
                              Edgware-road.

⁂ In connexion with this establishment, the Association has introduced
a Patent Chimney-pot, which effectually cures the downward draught,
and supersedes the use of “cowls,” which cannot escape fracture by the
Machinery employed in sweeping the chimneys.

[Illustration]

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL AND GENERAL LIFE ASSURANCE, ANNUITY, ENDOWMENT, AND LOAN
ASSOCIATION.

112, Cheapside, London.

Capital 500,000_l._ in shares of 50_l._ each. Deposit 2_l._ per share.

DIRECTORS.

    Henry George Ward, Esq., M.P., Chairman.
    John Aylwin, Esq., Dulwich.
    Robert Bastow, Esq., 20, Surrey-place, Old Kent-road.
    William Bastow, Esq., 20, Surrey-place, Old Kent-road.
    Henry Cornfoot, Esq., Old Palace, Richmond.
    Adam Duff, Esq., Morden-hill, Blackheath.
    Henry Hind Edwards, Esq., Park Village East, Regent’s-park.
    Edward Evans, Esq., 2, Stones’-end, Borough.
    Robert Meggay, Esq., 38, Great Tower-street.
    Richard Pope, Esq., 11, North Terrace, Camberwell.
    John Richards, Esq., 17, New Bridge-street, Blackfriars, and Reading.
    Thomas Bush Saunders, Esq., 19, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.

Rates of premium calculated on as low a rate as is consistent with the
safety of the assured and the stability of the Company.

A septennial division of the profits, either in the way of bonuses, or in
the reduction of premiums; two-thirds to the assured, and one-third to
the proprietors.

A system of loan upon personal or other securities, provided the party
borrowing assures his life for double the amount he receives.

Policies which shall have been assigned six months as a bona fide
security not void by death from suicide, duelling, or the hands of
justice.

No entrance fee or other charge beyond the policy stamp.

All matters in dispute, where no fraud is suspected, to be referred to
arbitration.

Claims payable three months after death, or earlier on receiving a
discount.

A liberal commission to all parties bringing business.

Premiums payable yearly, half-yearly, or quarterly.

Medical referees paid by the Office in every case referred to them for
their professional opinions.

Interest at the rate of 5_l._ per cent. allowed on the paid-up capital.

Applications for the remaining shares, agencies, and prospectuses, to be
made to the Secretary, 112, Cheapside.

Board days, Mondays and Thursdays, at half-past One o’clock.

                                            FREDERICK LAWRANCE, Secretary.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE CLERGY.

CITY EQUITABLE CLOTHING ESTABLISHMENT, FLEET-STREET (Three Doors from
Temple-bar).

G. EVANS respectfully yet fearlessly submits the following SCALE of
CONTRACTS to the careful perusal of gentlemen who have been accustomed to
pay exorbitant prices, and to assure them that the articles will be of
the best materials and workmanship, as he intends to continue that honest
and just principle of doing business which he has hitherto pursued, and
which he is happy to find has given such general satisfaction. His long
experience in cutting has qualified him to give a good fit, and his
matured judgment enables him to select none but the best materials.

Naval and Military Uniforms strictly to regulation, with a careful regard
to economy. Liveries unusually low, considering the superior articles
invariably supplied. Ladies’ Riding Habits, not to be surpassed in style,
quality, or price. Young Gentlemen’s Clothing at extremely moderate
prices.

A List of Prices forwarded to gentlemen who do not wish to contract.

TABLE OF CONTRACT.

    -------------+-------------+---------+-----------------
                 |             |         |Best that can be
    No. of Suits.|   Colours.  | Super.  |    made in
                 |             |per suit.|every particular.
    -------------+-------------+---------+-----------------
                 |             | £  s. d.|    £  s. d.
    Two Suits    |Coloured     | 4  4  0 |    4 18  0
      Ditto      |Black or Blue| 4 18  0 |    5 10  0
    -------------+-------------+---------+-----------------
    Three Suits  |Coloured     | 4  2  0 |    4 16  0
      Ditto      |Black or Blue| 4 16  0 |    5  8  0
    -------------+-------------+---------+-----------------
    Four Suits   |Coloured     | 4  0  0 |    4 10  0
      Ditto      |Black or Blue| 4 12  0 |    5  5  0
    -------------+-------------+---------+-----------------
    Five Suits   |Coloured     | 4  0  0 |    4  8  0
      Ditto      |Black or Blue| 4 12  0 |    5  2  0
    -------------+-------------+---------+-----------------
    Six Suits    |Coloured     | 3 18  0 |    4  6  0
      Ditto      |Black or Blue| 4 10  0 |    5  0  0
    -------------+-------------+---------+-----------------

OLD SUITS TO BE RETURNED.

Silk Waistcoats, 4s. extra; Frock Coats, 10s.; Velvet Waistcoats, 10s.;
Velvet Collar, 4s.

A newly-invented Measuring Card (with a Drawing), and Tape attached,
giving instructions to enable any person to use it correctly, will be
forwarded where required.

       *       *       *       *       *

OIL and LAMP PHENOMENA, and NO PUFF.—CLARK and CO., oil refiners by
chemical process, 261, Strand, and 16, Picket-street, sell their
UNEQUALLED CLARIFIED OIL, at 4s. 10d. per gallon, suitable for every
description of lamp in present use. Four gallons go as far as five
gallons of solar or other common oils, and therefore their Clarified Oil
is cheapest. Lamps burning it require no cleaning, on account of its
purity. It produces a splendid light, without smoke, if their fire-proof
smoke consuming glasses are used; but burns quite equal to sperm with
the common glasses. Oil lamps, best workmanship and newest style, at
manufacturer’s prices: for instance, excellent table lamps, 21s., usually
38s.; Cambridge reading or writing lamps, superior, 11s. 9d., usually
21s.; hall lamps from 2s. 9d.; very superb drawing and dining room lamps,
45s. 9d., usually 84s.; beautiful brass and real bronze reading lamps,
15s. 9d., usually 30s. These are only specimens of prices. Chandelier
designs to be seen in great variety. Clarified oil, 4s. 10d. imperial
gallon; fire-proof chimneys, 1s. only.—CLARK and CO., 16, Pickett-street,
or 261, Strand, three doors from the stone pillars, opposite St.
Clement’s Church, and not a corner shop. To prevent impositions, observe,
strictly, Clark and Co. stamped on the glasses, and sealed on the oil
corks. Books of designs of lamps (for every use) forwarded free to any
part of the kingdom.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAINT AND PAPER CLEANED ON A NEW PRINCIPLE.—HENRY BURRIDGE, 15,
Grenville-street, Brunswick-square, original Inventor of the new and
approved method of washing Paper-hangings on the walls of rooms by a
Chemical Preparation, to look equal to new, begs to return his most
grateful thanks to the Nobility and Gentry for the liberal patronage he
has received, and trusts by strict attention to merit a continuance of
their favours.

Specimens of paper cleaning may be seen at 15, Grenville-street, or shewn
on the walls that are required to be cleaned. Gilt Mouldings, Painted
Ceilings, Stucco Walls, Wainscots, &c., cleaned nearly equal to new,
Marble Monuments, Busts, and Chimney-pieces bleached and cleaned without
incurring the expense of taking down and refixing.

Manufacturer of Marble Papers for staircase walls, &c., in a new and
superior style.

Distempering, Whitewashing, and Colouring executed with despatch.

                          Established 20 years.
                         House and Estate Agent.
                     N.B. No charge for registering.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: AUSTIN & SEELEY, NEW ROAD, LONDON,

(_Corner of Cleveland Street._)]

AUSTIN and SEELEY respectfully invite the attention of Builders, Masons,
and others to their extensive Collection of Ornaments, manufactured in
Artificial Stone, of their own peculiar Composition, without either the
use of Roman Cement or the application of Heat. They are also ready to
execute New Models on the lowest remunerating terms. Their present Stock
consists of—

Capitals and Fluted Columns; Trusses, Brackets, and Modillions; the Royal
Arms and Prince of Wales’s Feathers; Centre Ornaments for Entablatures
and Bas-Relievos; Balustrading and Coping, for which, as their work
is waterproof, it is well suited; Rustic and Rough Stone Facing, and
Pier Ornaments, such as Pine-Apples, &c.; Gothic Work in great variety,
including Fonts, Communion Tables, and Screens; Tazzas and Vases, to the
extent of nearly One Hundred Models; Flower-Boxes, and Garden-Border
Edging; Fountains, from £6 and upwards; Monumental Urns; Figures—Statues
from the antique, as well as some chaste subjects of modern design,
Animals, Birds, &c.; Chimneys and Chimney-Pots, from 1 foot 10 inches
to 10 feet high. (As these are so bulky, a portion of Roman Cement is
introduced for economy’s sake.)

N.B. A complete Specimen-Sheet of their Chimneys may be had by
application to A. and S.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

       *       *       *       *       *

MOST IMPORTANT INVENTION.

THE PATENT STUCCO PAINT CEMENT.—This truly valuable preparation, the
satisfactory result of a long series of experiments, after having been
subjected to the most rigid tests, is now offered with confidence to the
public, as possessing the following extraordinary qualities, which must
at once insure for it a preference over any Cement yet manufactured.

Architects, Engineers, Contractors, Builders, Masons, Plasterers, and
the Trade are referred to the undermentioned properties of this valuable
discovery, which is secured by Patent to its Inventors and Proprietors.

1. Its strong adhesive properties, fixing most tenaciously to the
smoothest surfaces, even to glass.

2. Its being highly repellent of water, and thoroughly impervious to wet
or damp.

3. The chemical peculiarity of its composition does not admit of the
possibility of its vegetating, and thereby becoming discoloured.

4. The safe and gradual rapidity with which it dries; hardening the more
by the greater exposure to the atmosphere.

5. Its perfect freedom from any of the caustic qualities of Lime
Stuccoes; and consequently,

6. It may be painted upon as soon as dry, a property possessed by no
other Cement whatever.

7. It is not in the slightest degree affected by frost.

8. It may be kept in the cask as delivered from the Manufactory for
any length of time without deterioration, not requiring to be used (as
other Cements are) immediately after being manufactured. To Merchants,
therefore, and Exporters, even to the remotest parts of the globe, this
Cement will form a most important item of commerce.

9. To Engineers and Conductors of Public Works, the use of this Cement is
strongly recommended in lieu of mortar, particularly in the construction
of Railway Arches and Tunnelling; its peculiarly tenacious property
forming one hardened mass with the brick or masonry, or with whatever
material it may be used; and it will be found particularly valuable in
laying and pointing roofs, whether of slate or tile, in the most exposed
situations, rendering the whole roof fixed and immoveable.

This Cement is sold in a fluid state, fit for its mixture with the sand,
at 14s. per cwt.: the proportions being one fourth-part of the fluid
to three-fourths of sand, thereby reducing the price of this Cement
considerably below that of any other yet offered to the public.

One coat of the Cement, so prepared, is sufficient to cover at once a
Brick Front, without any preparatory coat of lime, seven pounds of the
fluid Cement being consumed in covering the square yard; but when laid on
Lime Plaster, four pounds’ weight to the square yard will be found enough.

Messrs. Johns and Co., of Plymouth (the Patentees), are now prepared
to execute orders to any extent; and beg to intimate that they have
appointed Messrs. Mann and Co., of No. 5, Maiden-lane, Queen-street,
London, as their Sole Agents, at whose Warehouse any quantity may be
procured, specimens may be seen, and every information obtained, and to
whom all communications are to be addressed.

London, 5, Maiden-lane, Queen-street, Cheapside, May, 1842.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMES GRANT, GAS FITTER, No. 1, Vine-street, Tufton-Street, Westminster,
respectfully offers his services to his friends and the public, to lay
gas apparatus, of iron or metal, with every requisite for lighting houses
or apartments, &c., upon sound principles, which insure safety and
prevent smell or other inconvenience, upon economical terms. Drawings and
estimates furnished.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MASONS, SCULPTORS, BUILDERS, &c.—WYATT, PARKER, and Co. beg to inform
their friends and the public, that they have just received from Italy
some fine Blocks of Statuary, Veined, Dove, Sienna, and other Marbles.
Also a large quantity of Italian sawn slabs or tables. To be seen at
Albion Wharf, Holland-street, foot of Blackfriars-bridge, Surrey.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ARTISTS, &c.—Wanted, a Gentleman with a taste for Architectural
Drawing, and of competent skill as a Draughtsman and Colourist, who,
in return for the facilities given him to acquire a knowledge of
Architecture, &c., would give his services, or at a moderate remuneration
in instruction. Address H., “Builder” Office.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, &c.—J. EVANS, Stove Grate Manufacturer, 33,
King William-street, London-bridge, respectfully submits the following
reduced prices for wholesale orders:—Best elliptic stoves, 4½d. per inch;
register stoves, 10d. per inch; Evans’s improved patent self-acting
kitchen ranges, with ovens and back boilers, three feet, 4_l._ 14s.
6d.; three feet four inches, 5_l._ 15s. 6d.; three feet eight inches,
6_l._ 6s.; four feet, 6_l._ 16s. 6d. Larger sizes, with steam apparatus
complete, from 20_l._ to 100_l._ and upwards. The largest stock of
ornamental drawing-room stoves, fenders, &c., in the kingdom.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, AND OTHERS.

The advantages of JAMES FINDON’S Patent improvement to Water-Closets are
the great facility of acting, cleanliness, a durability, a readiness of
being connected to a pipe from a head of water, which pipe may be used
for any other purpose; the whole of the apparatus being under the seat.
Testimonials to be seen at the manufactory, 190½, High Holborn.

N.B. Iron Hopper Closet Basin glazed and trap complete, 1_l._ 5s.; Long
Iron Hopper Closet Basin glazed and trap complete, 1_l._ 7s.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, DECORATORS, &c.—A Gentleman who has had
considerable experience as a draughtsman and designer in the Elizabethan
style, as applicable to building, decoration, and furniture, would
be glad to meet with an engagement where he would also make himself
generally useful. Apply by letter, prepaid, to A.B., “Builder” Office.




MUSIC.


EIGHT-KEYED COCOA FLUTES, with MOSAIC GOLD or GERMAN SILVER double
spring-actioned keys, made on the principle of the two most eminent
Professors, NICHOLSON and RUDAL, price 2_l._ 15s. with Case, &c.,
complete.

       *       *       *       *       *

FLOWERS OF MELODY; or the BEAUTIES of the OPERA and CONCERT ROOM. Under
this title are published, Songs, Airs, Quadrilles, Waltzes, &c., arranged
for the Flute or Violin; the following are now ready, and may be had
by order of any Book or Music-seller, price Sixpence each:—Songs and
Airs from the works of Albert, Prince of Saxe Coburg Gotha—Beauties
of Strauss, Book I.—Lanner’s Waltzes, Book I.—Airs in the Tempest and
Macbeth—Songs and Airs in the Beggar’s Opera—Songs and Airs in Shiel’s
Opera of The Woodman.—John Limbird’s Music Warehouse, 143, Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAINZER’S MUSICAL TIMES, and SINGING CIRCULAR, a Fortnightly Journal,
published the 1st and 15th of every month.

Price 2d.—Stamped Edition for the Country, 3d.

    Annual Subscription 4s. 6d.
    Six Months’ ditto   2   3
    Stamped Edition     6s. 6d.
    Ditto ditto         3   3

The “Musical Times” contains original Articles on the Art, in all its
branches, with Criticisms of important Works bearing upon it; together
with notices of the chief Musical Performances in London and the
Provinces. It especially advocates Popular Musical Education. The rapidly
increasing circulation of this Paper, in all parts of the Kingdom,
renders it an important advertising medium. A composition of one of the
celebrated old or modern masters is presented Monthly to Subscribers (in
advance) of Six Months. These Compositions will consist of Organ Pieces,
Madrigals, Glees, Songs, &c.

Guaranteed Circulation 5,000 Copies.

Scale of Charges for Advertisements:—

    Eight Lines and under 5s. 0d.
    Every additional Line 0s. 6d.

For a series of insertions, a considerable reduction is made.

Office, 340, Strand; and may be ordered through all News Agents and
Booksellers.

The following Musical Compositions have already been presented to the
Subscribers.

With No. 2.—A Selection of Psalms and Hymns, arranged for one or two
treble voices and additional bass voice. By the Chevalier Sigismund
Neukomm. Part I.

With No. 4.—The Evening Song, for two voices; written for the family
circle. By C. H. Rinck.

With No. 6.—Psalms and Hymns. By the Chevalier Sigismund Neukomm. Part II.

With No. 8.—Duet. By Alesandro Stradella; with Accompaniment by G.
Hogarth.

With No. 10.—Madrigal. “Turn Amarillis.” By Brewer, 1667.

With the Number for Jan. 1, 1813, will be presented a perfect Fac Simile
of the Original Manuscript of a celebrated Composition of Mozart.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMPOSITION AND MUSICAL WORKS, BY JOSEPH MAINZER.

SINGING FOR THE MILLION, Eighth Edition: A Practical Course of Musical
Instruction, adapted, from its pleasing simplicity and rapid effect, to
render Musical Reading and Singing familiar to all ages, capacities, and
conditions. Stitched, 1s. 6d.; in cloth, 2s.

SINGING FOR THE MILLION, Second Part; containing numerous Exercises in
Imitations, Figures, and Canons of Jaunaconi, Fuchs, Albrechtsberger,
Hiller, Kittel; Gebhardi, Rinck, and Mainzer, stitched, 2s. 6d.

MAINZER’S CHORUSES.—2d. each.

PART I.

    1 Praise.
    2 Psalm CVII.
    3 The Cuckoo.
    4 The Village Chimes.
    5 Independence.
    6 The Traveller.
    7 God is everywhere.
    8 Temperance.

PART II.

     9 Invitation to a Redbreast.
    10 Call to Prayer.
    11 Stanzas to my Child.
    12 Infant’s Prayer.
    13 Blowing Bubbles.
    14 Super Flumina Babylonis.
    15 Prayer.
    16 Shepherd Boy.

PART III.

    17 The Sea.
    18 Contentment.
    19 Fraternity.
    20 Night Song.
    21 Consolation.
    22 Hymn.
    23 The World we have not seen.
    24 Psalm XV.

Part IV. now issuing.

    Britain’s Hymn, 2 editions, 3d. and 1s. 6d.
    Departure, 3d.
    Song of Night, 3d.

GUIDE FOR BEGINNERS IN PIANOFORTE PLAYING, with English and French words.
5s.

This work is entirely different from those of a similar kind, which
have chiefly in view the great agility of fingers, the elegance of
performance, and the difficulty of execution; while, on the contrary,
the greatest pains have been taken in this work to make it as simple as
possible for the understanding even of children, or all those who are
unacquainted with the Pianoforte.

The following Compositions are to be published successively:—

MUSICAL GRAMMAR. Theory of Chords, of Counterpoint, of Imitation, Fugue,
and Canons. In sheets, 3d. each.

THE ART OF SINGING, or Guide for the higher practical part of Execution.

A COLLECTION OF AIRS, DUETS, and CHORUSES of the Opera “La Jacquerie”
(Poor Conrad), with English, French, and German words.

THE ASCENSION OF CHRIST, an Oratorio.

London: Published at the Repository for Mainzer’s Publications, 340,
Strand.




PUBLICATIONS.


On Saturday, the 7th of January, 1843, will be published, the First
Number of a New Weekly Periodical, price 4d. or stamped, 5d. to be
entitled the

ILLUSTRATED POLYTECHNIC REVIEW. This Journal will be devoted to Science,
the Fine Arts, and Literature. Each Number will contain an Essay or
Essays on some branch of Science or the Fine Arts, together with other
highly-interesting matter. The Review will be printed on a fine Paper,
with a new Type, and will comprise 48 closely-printed columns, 4to. The
whole to be illustrated with numerous fine Engravings, by the first
Artists.

Letters, Essays, Works for Review &c. to be addressed to the Editor, 143,
Strand, London, where Advertisements will be received.

       *       *       *       *       *

Will be published on 1st January, 1843,

LAXTON’S BUILDERS’ PRICE-BOOK for 1843, containing upwards of Ten
Thousand Prices and Memoranda connected with Building. The whole has been
carefully revised and corrected agreeably to the recent alteration of
the price of materials in consequence of the New Tariff. A great variety
of additional prices have been given not before published, together with
some useful Tables. Seventeenth Edition. Published in a convenient size
suitable for the Pocket. Price 4s. bound in cloth, or in the form of a
pocket-book, price 5s.

To be had of the Author at his Office, 10, Fludyer-street, Whitehall;
John Weale, Architectural Library, 59, High Holborn; Simpkin, Marshall,
and Co., and R. Groombridge, Paternoster-row; Hebert, 88, Cheapside; and
Miller & Field, 6, Westminster-bridge-road.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW WORKS NOW PUBLISHING BY H. G. CLARKE & CO. 66, OLD BAILEY, LONDON,
Agent for Ireland, S. J. Machen, 8, D’Olier-street, Dublin, AND SOLD BY
ALL BOOKSELLERS.

THE ENGLISH WIFE; A Manual of Home Duties, designed as a Sequel to the
English Maiden. 12mo. cloth, lettered. Price 4s. 6d. Silk, 6s. Morocco,
8s.

CONTENTS.—Bridal Hopes and Joys. Family Arrangements. Domestic and Social
Duties. State of Mind necessary to the due Discharge of Domestic Duties.
On the Care of Health. On Healthful Food and Drink. On the Care of
Infants. On the Training of Young Children. Leisure Hours. Conclusion.

THE ENGLISH MAIDEN; Her Moral and Domestic Duties. With engraved Title,
designed by Gilbert, engraved by Gilks, fcp. 8vo. cloth, lettered, price
4s. 6d. Silk, 6s. Mor. 8s.

“A little work well worthy, from its good sense and good feeling, to be a
permanent and favourite monitor to our fair countrywomen.”—Morning Herald.

“The book is one of the best fitted for presents to young women, in any
rank of life; its price putting it within the reach of MOST; its tendency
calculated to be beneficial to ALL.”—Sherborne Mercury.

THE LADIES’ WORK-TABLE BOOK,

Containing full Instructions in Plain and Fancy Needle-work, Embroidery,
Knitting, Netting, Crochet, &c. Illustrated by upwards of Fifty
Engravings. Imperial 32mo. Cloth, gilt edges, price 3s. 6d.

THE LADIES’ HAND-BOOK OF FANCY NEEDLE-WORK AND EMBROIDERY,

Containing Plain and Ample Directions whereby to become a perfect
Mistress of those delightful Arts. 3rd edition, with Illustrations.
Imperial 32mo. gilt edges, price 1s.

“The directions are plain and concise, and we can honestly recommend the
volume to every reader.”—La Belle Assemblée.

THE LADIES’ HAND-BOOK OF PLAIN NEEDLE-WORK,

Containing Clear and Ample Instructions whereby to attain proficiency in
every department of this most useful employment, with Explanations of
the various Stitches. By the Author of the “Ladies’ Hand-Book of Fancy
Needle-work,” &c. Imp. 32mo. gilt edges, price 1s.

THE LADIES’ HAND-BOOK OF KNITTING, NETTING, AND CROCHET,

Containing Plain Directions by which to become proficient in those
branches of Useful and Ornamental Employment. By the Author of the
“Ladies’ Hand-Book of Fancy Needlework,” &c. 3rd edition, with
Illustrations. Imperial 32mo. gilt edges, price 1s.

“A more useful work can hardly be desired.”—Court Gazette.

THE LADIES’ HAND-BOOK OF BABY-LINEN,

By the Author of the “Ladies’ Hand-Book of Fancy Needlework,” &c.
Imperial 32mo. gilt edges, price 1s.

THE HAND-BOOK OF PAINTING IN OIL,

With an Appendix, containing Sir J. Reynolds’ Observations and
Instructions to Students. Imperial, 32mo. gilt edges, price 1s.

“A work of great utility to the Young Artist and Amateur.”—Polytechnic
Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNUALS, FOR 1843.

A LOVE GIFT for 1843.

Royal 32mo. cloth, price 2s. 6d. White Silk, 3s.

“A pretty little volume, bound in pink and gold, containing extracts
from our English poets, both ancient and modern, upon a subject which
‘rules the camp, the court, the grove—man below, and gods above;’ all
universal love—and those who wish to learn what poets have said upon this
all-interesting subject, may find it here.”—Era.

THE BALL-ROOM ANNUAL for 1843.

Comprising, in addition to the most Fashionable Quadrilles, Galopades,
Mazourkas, &c. of the Present Season, the Steps used in the Strathspeys
and Highland Reels, as danced before her Majesty and Prince Albert, on
their recent Visit to Scotland. Medium 32mo. gilt edges, price 1s.

THE CHILD’S OWN ANNUAL for 1843;

Illustrated by upwards of Thirty Wood Engravings. Fcp. 8vo. handsomely
bound, price 4s. 6d.

HARRISON’S GARDEN ALMANAC and Floral Calendar for 1843.

The Floricultural Department by JOSEPH HARRISON, Editor of the
“Floricultural Cabinet,” “Gardener’s Record,” &c. Foolscap 8vo. price 1s.

CLARKE’S GUIDE BOOKS

To the Exhibitions in and near London; Free Galleries of Art in and near
London; a Guide Book for Visiters, by H. G. CLARKE. Fcp. 8vo. sewed,
price 1s. 6d.; containing the National Gallery, Dulwich Gallery, and
Greenwich Hospital Naval Gallery.

The National Gallery; a Guide Book for Visiters. Price 4d.; abridged 3d.
and 1d.

The Dulwich Gallery; a Guide Book for Visiters. Price 6d.; abridged 4d.
and 2d.

The Naval Gallery at Greenwich Hospital; a Guide Book for Visiters. Price
3d.; abridged 1d.

The Royal Gallery, Hampton Court.—Nearly ready.

THE LIFE OF SAINT IGNATIUS,

Bishop of Antioch; being No. I. of the Lives of the Fathers, Saints, and
Martyrs of the Early Christian Church, Imperial 32mo, price 1s.

LETTERS TO A YOUNG LADY

On the Advantages of Early Piety. Imperial 32mo. cloth.—Nearly ready.

CONTENTS.—Personal Advantages of Early Piety. Domestic Advantages of
Early Piety. Early Piety as a Preparatory for the Duties of Active Life.
Early Piety as connected with the Immortal Destiny of the Human Race.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOSLEY’S METALLIC PENS.—The decided superiority of these Pens over all
others has long been acknowledged by the Public, and MOSLEY and Co., by
anxiously embracing every opportunity of improving their manufacture,
have at length brought them to such a state of perfection, as utterly
to defy competition. M. & Co. in returning thanks for the very liberal
support they have received, would beg at the same time to observe, that
us few persons can write with the same description of Pen, they have
manufactured a great variety of kinds, being thus enabled to suit the
hand-writing of all.

MOSLEY’S PENS are sold by all stationers, and other respectable pen
dealers throughout the Kingdom, and Wholesale at No. 8, Hatton Garden,
London.

To guard against the many spurious imitations palmed upon the Public,
every genuine Pen is stamped “RICHARD MOSLEY & Co. London,” and it is
requisite that particular attention be paid to this circumstance, as the
name of MOSLEY has been marked upon articles of a worthless description,
the name being wrongly spelled, or the Christian name left out—“RICHARD
MOSLEY & Co. London,” is the only genuine stamp.

       *       *       *       *       *

BENTLEY’S Patent PORCELAIN LETTERS, for shop-fronts, hotels, merchants,
shippers, &c., are 23 per cent. cheaper than the projecting; they are
the most beautiful and imposing to the sight possible, and by far the
most durable of any yet introduced; it is a fact worthy of remark, that
every new letter that has been brought out within the last ten years has
been Bentley’s invention: also Bentley’s newly-invented Zinc and Brass
Shop Window Plates, both flat and circular, with raised letters, without
a particle of wax, which never get out of order. The Queen’s, Prince
Albert’s, and the Prince of Wales’ coats of arms in wood and metal.
Observe.—The only Manufactory is Bentley’s, 234, High Holborn.

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS FOR SHOP FRONTS.—Use Mason’s Imperishable ones, made in patent
Iron-stone China, which have stood the severe test of 20 winters’
exposure in front of their manufactory at Fenton, in the Potteries.

To be had of Mr. Wager Brameld, Agent, 16, Norton-street, Portland-place.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREAT COMFORT TO INVALIDS.—FYFE’S Patent Hermetically Sealed Commode
Pail, forming with its mahogany seat and earthen pan, a completely
air-tight, inodorous, portable chamber closet, for 1_l._ 6s., in a
neat japanned box, 2_l._ 4s., in a handsome mahogany enclosure, 3_l._;
rendering a sick room, at all times, as fresh and comfortable to enter as
a well-appointed drawing-room.

Sold at Fyfe’s Repository, 26, Tavistock-street, Covent Garden.

Also,

TREDGOLD’S WARM ATMOSPHERIC AIR STOVE, filling the whole area of a Church
with a uniform warmth in two hours from lighting the fire.

Orders from the country, with a reference in London, immediately attended
to.

       *       *       *       *       *

PATENT TRANSPARENT VENTILATORS.—The increasing patronage afforded to
this invention, which has been extensively introduced into the palaces,
public offices, most of the principal banking and club houses, and many
private houses, warehouses, offices, &c., has induced the proprietors
(FAIRS and CO.) to an effort for their more general adoption, in
furtherance of which they have prepared a graduated and greatly reduced
tariff of prices, which will be forwarded, post-paid, on application
to Fairs and Co., 22, Mortimer-street, Cavendish-square; the Factory,
15, Gillingham-street, Pimlico; or Messrs. Bunnett and Corpe, 26,
Lombard-street, where orders are also received. Fairs and Co. are also
Manufacturers of the Improved Zinc Sashes, now so extensively used for
Churches and other buildings, which supersede the use of copper, at a
much less cost, and in which the most elaborate designs may be executed.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM SUGG AND CO., No. 19, Marsham-street, Westminster, BRASS and
IRON FOUNDERS, GAS ENGINEERS and FITTERS, Makers of Improved Patent
Gas Meters, Manufacturers of every description of plain and ornamental
bronze, brass and iron work, for OIL or GAS. Fan lights, passage and
lantern, plain or ornamented, Wholesale, Retail, and for Exportation.
Casting for the Trade.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIRD’S EYE MAPLE PLANKS, lying in the West India Docks, for sale in
any quantity: also a Case of very superior Satin-wood Veneers. Apply,
prepaid, W., 340, Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PATENT FIRE PUMP AND ANTI-FRICTION PUMP.—They are both simple and
cheap, and not so likely to get out of repair as the common Pump. The
Fire Pump combines, without any alteration, the common domestic Pump,
the Lifting Pump, and the Force Pump. The Fire Pump is adopted by her
Majesty’s Board of Works, and one is fixed in the House of Commons.
Patent Water-closets, Portable ditto, Self-acting ditto, &c. &c.

Freeman Roe, Plumber, Engineer, &c., 70, Strand, opposite the Adelphi
Theatre.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMITH’S PATENT IMPROVED WATER-CLOSET combines all the requisites
considered indispensable to form a perfect machine of this nature. In its
action it is rapid, certain, and complete; simplicity of construction
(the want of which in every other kind has been the fruitful and constant
source of so much perplexity) is the distinguishing characteristic of
Smith’s Patent Improved Water-Closet.

The value of these Closets has been confirmed, after the severest tests
in which they could be subjected, by persons holding important situations
in various public institutions, and must be considered conclusive
in a matter so nearly affecting the comfort and convenience of the
establishments under their care. Such is the confidence of the Patentee
in the completeness of this invention, that he distinctly holds himself
responsible for the perfect action of every Closet fixed under his own
superintendence, and undertakes to remove, free of expense, any that may
be found not to fulfil the conditions of his prospectus.

⁂ See “Mechanic’s Magazine” of Sept. 17th, 1842.

Prospectuses and Testimonials may be had of the Patentee, T. SMITH,
Plumber, Northampton; or Hayward, Tyler, and Co., Brass-founders, 85,
Upper Whitecross-street, St. Luke’s, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

PATENT PERRYIAN PENS.

PRICES ACCESSIBLE TO ALL WRITERS.

JAMES PERRY & CO., Manufacturers to Her Majesty and H.R.H. Prince Albert.

Have just introduced a new variety of their excellent Metallic Pens,
in boxes containing one gross, &c., in cases containing a quarter of a
hundred, and on cards; all of which are manufactured under the protection
of their Patents, suitable for every description of writing, and superior
to all the ordinary Steel Pens in general use. J. P. & Co. strongly
recommend Bankers, Merchants, Exporters of Metallic Pens, and all large
buyers to make trial of these articles, in the full confidence they will
be found to possess more of the necessary elasticity for the production
of good writing than any other Pens at a similar price.

Pens in Boxes.

DOUBLE PATENT LARGE BARREL PENS, in Boxes, containing one dozen with
Holder, or in Boxes of three dozen each, Fine or Medium Points.

[Illustration]

DOUBLE PATENT SMALL BARREL PENS, in Boxes, containing one dozen with
Holder, or in Boxes of three dozen, six dozen, or twelve dozen each, Fine
or Medium Points.

[Illustration]

DOUBLE PATENT PENS, No. 2, in Boxes, containing three dozen, six dozen,
or twelve dozen each, with Fine, Medium, or Extra Fine Points.

[Illustration]

CURVE-CUT PENS, in Boxes, containing three dozen, six dozen, or twelve
dozen each, with Fine or Medium Points.

[Illustration]

Pens on Cards.

  DOUBLE PATENT LARGE BARREL PENS, with Fine or Medium Points.—Nine
                                     Pens with Holder.
  DOUBLE PATENT SMALL BARREL PENS           ”
  CURVE-CUT PENS                            ”

Pens in Cases containing a Quarter Hundred, with Holder.

  DOUBLE PATENT PENS, No. 2, with Fine or Medium Points
  RAVEN BLACK PENS No. 2,              ”
  BRONZE PENS No. 2,                   ”

_The Following Sorts of the Perryian Pens, manufactured by JAMES PERRY &
CO., are Sold on Cards as Usual._

                                                                  _s._ _d._
  RAVEN BLACK PENS, with Fine or Medium Points             per Card 1   0
  NATIONAL PENS, Nos. 1, 2, 3, & 4, with Fine or Medium
    Points                                                  ditto   1   0
  OFFICE PENS                                               ditto   1   0
  FINE OFFICE PENS                                          ditto   1   0
  NATIONAL PENS, Nos. 7 and 8, with Fine or Medium Points   ditto   1   6
  DOUBLE PATENT PENS, with Fine, Medium, Broad, or Extra
    Fine Points                                             ditto   2   0
  UNDER SPRING PENS   ditto                                 ditto   2   0
  FLAT SPRING PENS    ditto                                 ditto   2   0
  SIDE SPRING PENS    ditto                                 ditto   2   0
  THREE-POINTED PENS                                        ditto   2   0
  ELASTIC FOUNTAIN PENS, with Fine, Medium, Broad, or
    Extra Fine Points                                       ditto   2   6
  INDIA-RUBBER SPRING PENS, ditto                           ditto   2   6
  REGULATING SPRING PENS    ditto                           ditto   2   6
  ELASTIC HOLDER, with appropriate Pens ditto               ditto   2   6
  FOUNTAIN PENS                         ditto               ditto   3   0
  SCHOOL PENS, for Large, Round, or Small Hand, per Packet          2   0

N.B.—Each Card and Packet contains NINE PENS, with suitable Holder.

  DRAWING and MAPPING PENS, per Card of Six Pens, with Holder       3   6
  LITHOGRAPHIC PENS ditto                                           3   6

PATENT PERRYIAN ELASTIC HOLDER.

The Elastic Holder is so constructed as to impart an agreeable softness
and flexibility to the Pen, rendering it so unconstrained in its action
as not to fatigue the hand. This Holder facilitates the progress of the
Pen over every description of paper. It may be had with the Perryian
Pens, at an advance of THREEPENCE per Card; or separately, at THREEPENCE
each. Each Holder is stamped with the words “PATENT, PERRY, LONDON.”

PERRYIAN LIMPID INK.

This Ink has a flowing property peculiar to itself, and does not corrode
Metallic Pens as other Inks.—In Bottles, 6d., 1s., and 2s. each.

BLACK INK POWDER, 6d. and 1s. per Packet.

LIMPIDUM, for neutralising the ill effects of the usual Inks, when used
with Metallic Pens, Sixpence per Packet.

Writing Paper; Silver, Albata, and other Pen-Holders and Pencil-Pen
Cases, adapted to the PERRYIAN PENS, at the usual Prices.

[Illustration: _James Perry & Co_]

⁂ £20 Reward will be given, on conviction, for information of any Person
or Persons infringing any of the Proprietors Patent Rights.

☞ Sold by all Stationers and Dealers in Metallic Pens, and at the
Manufactory, 37 Red Lion Square, London.

[Illustration]

DOUBLE PATENT PERRYIAN FILTER INKSTAND.

JAMES PERRY and Co., Manufacturers to Her Majesty and H. R. H. Prince
Albert,

Having effected considerable improvement in their FILTER INKSTAND, have
now the pleasure to announce that a Second Patent has been granted to
them for such improvement, which they have united with their First
Patent, under the title of “DOUBLE PATENT PERRYIAN FILTER INKSTAND.”
The eulogy bestowed on the _Patent Filter Inkstand_ by the public
journals, and the preference obtained for them over the common Inkstands,
were almost unprecedented. The present novel and scientific method
of supplying Clear Ink to the Dipping Cup, and returning it into the
reservoir, is exceedingly simple, the action being now performed by
merely lifting up the lid to obtain a supply, and shutting it down to
withdraw it; in this state it is protected from dust or other injury in
any place or climate. When the Inkstand is filled, it is always ready for
use, and the writer will have a regular and daily supply of Clear Ink for
four or six months.

[Illustration: No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4.

No. 5. No. 6. No. 7. No. 4½.]

TESTIMONIALS.

It possesses the advantage, from being air-tight, of preserving Ink for
almost any period of time.—_Times._

One of the most useful inventions of the present day that has come under
our observation.—_Morning Herald._

It is really most ingenious, and not in the slightest degree liable to
get out of order.—_John Bull._

Very ingeniously constructed to keep the surface of the Ink at a uniform
level, where it is presented to the dip of the Pen.—_Morning Post._

We have tested the PERRYIAN INKSTAND, and have every reason to be
perfectly satisfied with the trial.—_Atlas._

PATENT PERRYIAN GRAVITATING INKSTAND.

_As Cheap as the Common Inkstand._

This neat and novel invention is exceedingly well adopted for general
use; it preserves the Ink in great perfection for months together,
without the trouble of refilling; it excludes dust, &c., and at any
moment the writer is supplied with Ink in the most perfect state.

The Patentees strongly recommend it to the notice of Bankers, Merchants,
Solicitors, Government Offices, Public Companies, Shops, Schools, &c.,
as a great improvement over the ordinary Inkstand, both as regards
convenience, and considerable saving of Ink. This Inkstand will be found
invaluable in keeping the Ink always clear and fit for use in every
climate. It is of a cylindrical form, with a gravitating action, adjusted
so as to supply the Dipping Cup with Ink, which can be returned into
the Cylinder when not in use. Economy, cleanliness, and usefulness are
secured by it, and it cannot get out of order.

[Illustration: No. 1. No. 3. No. 2.]

☞ Sold by all Stationers and Dealers in Metallic Pens, and at the
Manufactory, 37, Red Lion Square, London.




“THE BUILDER.”


THE BUILDER.—This Journal will be exclusively devoted to the interests of
Builders, by which term must be understood all that numerous and wealthy
portion of persons connected directly or indirectly with Building.
It will partake of the character of a Trade Journal or Magazine, and
also fulfil the objects of a Weekly Newspaper, by giving a faithful
and impartial abstract of the News of the Week. The Conductors will
not discuss the question of general Politics, nor will they enter upon
Political disquisition at all, unless any measure should be proposed
affecting the class whose interests they will always support and defend.
Upon such occasions, and upon such occasions only, will their paper be
political. It will be of no party, unless, indeed, the advocating the
true interests of all classes connected with the Building Business, from
the Labourer to the Architect, can be so considered. A portion of

                              “THE BUILDER”

will be occupied by Essays on the Building and Furnishing Arts in
all their various and numerous branches. It will contain the designs
of Ancient Buildings and Works, and of those of our own day—not mere
pictures or views from which nothing is to be learnt, but plans,
sections, &c., which, while they will be rendered perfectly intelligible
to workmen of ordinary information, it is hoped will not be below the
notice of the Architect and the Amateur.

When we consider how numerous and important is the class to whose
interests this Journal is dedicated; a class of British Artisans
numbering at least half a million; a class whose trade-education
distinguishes them in intellect, knowledge, and wealth, it can only
form matter of surprise, that while the Clerical, Medical, Legal,
Military, and Naval, the Artists and Literati, and other classes have
their public organs of opinion and information; while the Gardeners and
Agriculturists, Railway and Commercial and Banking Companies have each
their mouth-piece and record; the religious sects, and all Politicians
their special advocates that this most numerous, most intelligent, and
most wealthy, should have so long remained without this bond of the
Press; to instruct and inform, to disseminate knowledge as to discoveries
and inventions, to advertise wants, and form for it a general nucleus of
strength, light, and union.

Amongst the Tradesmen, Manufacturers, &c. who are particularly interested
in

                              “THE BUILDER,”

both as a medium for obtaining information, and for Advertising their own
productions and requirements, we may enumerate the following:—

    Architectural Authors and Publishers
    Asphalte Companies
    Artificial Stone Manufacturers
    Auctioneers and Agents for Buildings, Land, Timber Sales, &c.
    Bath, Portland, Granite, Yorkshire, and other Stone Merchants
    Brass Fender, Rods, Plate, &c. Manufacturers
    Brass Founders
    Blind Makers, Venetian and others
    Booksellers
    Bent Timber Manufacturers
    Brokers, Consignments, Sales, &c.
    Bronzists
    Builders’ Cards and Advertisements
    Building Material Dealers
    Carpet Warehouses
    Carvers
    Cabinet Makers
    Chimney-piece Manufacturers
    Cement Manufacturers
    Carriers, Canals, and Vans
    Clerks of Works and their Employers
    Clock Makers and Bell Founders
    Coppersmiths and Braziers
    Contractors and Contracts
    Drawing Schools, Academies, and Schools of Design
    Engineers and Workmen
    Estate and House Agents
    Fender Makers
    Founders and Furnishing Ironmongers
    Fire-proof Materials
    Fencing,—Iron, Wood, or Stone
    Foremen wanted
    Glass and Lead Merchants
    ” Manufacturers, Plate and Stained
    Gas Fitters, &c.
    Grindstones, &c.
    Houses of Call
    Insurance Companies
    Iron and Steel Merchants
    Iron and Tin Plate Workers
    Iron Bedstead Makers, Safes, &c.
    Land Jobbers, and Sales for Building, &c.
    Lamp Manufacturers
    Lath Renders
    Lead Merchants
    Lime Merchants and Burners
    Locksmiths and Bellhangers
    Lock Manufacturers
    Loan Societies
    Mathematical Instrument Makers
    Machine Makers, Engines, &c.
    Metallic Sash Makers—Springs, &c.
    Mechanics’ Institutions
    Mechanical Instrument Makers
    Millwrights and Millstones
    Modellers and Carvers
    Marble Workers—Chimney-piece Manufacturers
    Nail Merchants
    Oven Builders
    Paint and Colour Merchants
    Papier Maché Manufacturers
    Paviours
    Picture Frame and Gilt Moulding Makers
    Patents—Patent Agencies, &c.
    Plasterers and Plaster of Paris
    Pump Makers, &c.
    Pencil Makers
    Prices Current—Timber, Lead, Iron, &c.
    Publishers, Printers, &c.
    Railway Companies
    Registration of Designs
    Roman Cement Makers
    Sales—Timber, Land, Houses, &c.
    Scagliola Manufacturers
    Saw Mills, Sawing, Saw Makers
    Stone Quarries and Merchants
    Slate do. do.
    Staffordshire Tiles, Bricks, Pipes, &c.
    Ships—Imports, Exports, Emigration, &c.
    Steam Engines, and Boiler Makers
    Stove Grate Makers
    Tool Makers
    Turners
    Ventilating and Warming Buildings
    Upholsterers
    Wire Drawers and Workers
    Water Closet Makers
    Wood Paving Companies
    Wood Letters
    Window Blind Makers—Transparent, &c.
    Workmen wanted
    Zinc Manufacturers, and Door-plate Makers
    Zincography and Artists

The following presents a list, taken from the census of 1831, of the
building and connected classes in Great Britain only, and of these only
the male adults of 20 years old and upwards:—

    Architects and Engineers—No number given.
    Agents—None given.
    Auctioneers                       2,823
    Bricklayers                      29,653
    Brickmakers                      10,184
    Builders                          5,204
    Carpenters                      103,238
    Cabinet Makers                   21,774
    Carvers and Gilders               2,854
    Chair Makers                        802
    Ironmongers and Ironfounders     10,411
    Land Jobbers                        651
    Lime Burners                      3,122
    Masons or Wallers                49,159
    Marble Cutters                    1,732
    Nailors                           1,882
    Painters                         15,653
    Plumbers and Glaziers            11,999
    Plasterers                        9,683
    Sawyers                          19,181
    Slaters                           4,539
    Turners                           5,905
    Upholsterers                      2,932
    Undertakers                       1,121
                                    -------
                                    314,502

To which, if we add for Ireland, for apprentices and increase of
population, we shall have a number probably far exceeding half a million!

That this description of paper has been long a desideratum, is evinced
by the history and character of the associations of years past. The
struggles on the part of masters and men, and the attitude taken by the
public towards both, required an interlocutor of this nature to promote
a good understanding, and to secure equity and justice to all. With such
an auxiliary, what waste of time and funds had been avoided—what noble
projects carried out—what petty strife suppressed—what distractions kept
down. Our dignity would have been maintained, and our cause ennobled.

But more than this. How many of the claims of humble merit have slept in
this interval for the want of a friendly expositor, or a common vehicle
of publicity? And how many valuable inventions have languished wanting
encouragement, or died still-born in the obscurity of their birth? How
many toilsome wanderings of the artisan in search of employment might
have been avoided?—how many common benefits have been withheld?—How
frequently the hand of brotherly charity undirected, and the worthy
object frustrated of its aid? In the glut of work in one quarter and its
scarcity in another, how promptly would

                              “THE BUILDER”

have adjusted the balance? Its columns at all times open to inquiries,
and the office for reference, would have solved many difficulties, and
facilitated many purposes of good.

But “better late than never.” The present effort will be under the chief
conduct of one who, from his experience and practice, has derived means
and opportunities of knowing the wants, and understanding the interests,
of the class to whom he has the honour to belong. And it will be the
object at all times to enlist in behalf of this enterprise the talent and
services of all superior minds and zealous hearts in the various kindred
professions.

The paper will be of a convenient size for being bound as a book, and
so that the essays and illustrations may be separated and preserved.
As before stated in respect of the political department, the Editor
will endeavour to steer clear of partizanship. But times may arise when
a fearless advocacy of trade interests will require him to oppose or
support the party in power; on such occasions he will claim for himself
the right to assert his views, and those of his class, in a manly and
temperate manner.

The illustrations will consist of views, plans, elevations, and sections
of ancient and modern buildings, and of parts of buildings, so as
effectually to describe their peculiar excellencies;—of working drawings
and diagrams for the carpenter, mason, cabinet-maker, &c. &c.;—designs
of manufactured articles and implements used in building;—of improved
associations and architectural arrangements, whether in the cottage or
the mansion, the villa or the palace, in the farm, the village, and the
city; in short, there will be no subject in art or science connected with
building and the furnishing of buildings that will not be sought after to
be introduced here.

As a medium of Advertisements, its merits will be obvious: the list
already given comprehends a large number of those to whom such a paper
as this offers always the only proper vehicle. But there are many
besides to whom it will be a welcome organ. In the matter of contracts
for building, of business to be disposed of or sought after, of workmen
wanted or seeking employment, and in all such pertaining to the class of
builders and cabinet makers, it will at once form a perfect scheme of
publicity, thereby encouraging many to advertise, in the certainty of
their advertisements being read, and many to read in the same certainty
of finding an answer to their wants.

All communications to be addressed to the Editor of “THE BUILDER,” No. 2,
York-street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

TESSELLATED PAVEMENT.—WYATT, PARKER, and CO. respectfully call the
attention of the Public to their Specimens of Tessellated Pavement
which may be seen at Albion Wharf, Holland-street, Surrey Foot of
Blackfriars-bridge.

The Tesseræ for forming this Pavement or Flooring, being composed of
similar material to that used in the manufacture of porcelain, and highly
vitrified, are imperishable. They can be had of any size and form, from
cubes of a quarter of an inch, and with the colours burnt throughout
the entire body. If required, they may be gilt similar to those on the
tombs of Edward the Confessor and Henry the Third. They are prepared to
execute designs for these floors, or to dispose of the small Quarries
or Tesseræ by the gross, to such persons as may wish to execute their
own floors. These Tesseræ may be united on the floor with Roman Cement,
Lime, and Pozzolano, Plaster of Paris, or most of the Cements now in use;
or prepared in slabs, and laid with the same facility as Portland Stone
paving.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENCAUSTIC or INLAID ORNAMENTAL TILES, for paving churches, halls,
corridors, &c.—WYATT, PARKER, and Co. beg to acquaint the public
that they are now prepared to execute PAVEMENTS with these beautiful
tiles, manufactured in imitation of the best ancient examples from the
Chapterhouse, Westminster, Winchester Cathedral, Romsey Church, Great
Malvern, &c. Being made of the famous red Staffordshire clay, they are
of a less porous body than the ancient tiles, consequently are more
durable, and will bear the roughest usage to which a foot-pavement can
be subject, and are therefore more economical than any of the marbles
and stones now in use for similar purposes. W. P., and Co. also have a
great variety of other tiles of various colours for flooring, and white
glazed tiles for the sides of stoves, dairies, baths, &c. Specimens may
be seen at Wyatt, Parker, and Co.’s wharf, Holland-street, Surrey Foot of
Blackfriars-bridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTISTS, PRINTSELLERS, and Others are respectfully informed that C. F.
Brelefeld has formed a large Collection of new and elegant Designs for
Picture Frames in the Improved Papier Maché. The superiority of these
Frames consists in their having all the effect of old carved work; many
patterns represent exactly the finest carvings of the 17th century. The
small parts are far less liable to injury than putty work. Papier Maché
being a remarkably tough and hard substance, it never shrinks, and takes
gilding very freely; the frames do not weigh one quarter the weight of
others, and the price is below that usually charged.

Many specimens are now on view at C. F. Brelefeld’s Papier Maché Works,
No. 15, Wellington-street North, Strand, where also Pattern Books may be
had, price 14s., consisting of a variety of Patterns of Picture and Glass
Frames and Window Cornices, already executed, and on sale.

“PICTURE FRAMES.—We direct the especial attention of all persons
interested in this subject to the frames for pictures manufactured by
Mr. Brelefeld; they are of Papier Maché, and the advantages they possess
over the ordinary composition frames are so strong and so numerous, that
they must inevitably be brought into general use. They look exceedingly
attractive, and are in reality as much so as if they had passed through
the hands of the carver, and been produced at about ten times the
expense. The gilding tells with very brilliant effect; and no matter how
elaborate the pattern may be, they have a clearness and sharpness that we
have seldom or never seen obtained in composition.”—Art-Union.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO CIVIL ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, AND THE PUBLIC.

THOMAS PEAKE’S TERRO-METALLIC MANUFACTORIES, Tunstall, near Newcastle,
Staffordshire. Depôt, Albion Wharf, Holland-street, London, per Messrs.
Wyatt, Parker, and Co.

The manufacturer and his late father have conducted the present business
since 1808, now thirty-four years. He begs to remark that, during that
period, the articles have supplanted other materials to a considerable
extent provincially; and experience leads him to believe that they will
be more generally adopted in the metropolis, as they become known.

T. P. had the honour to supply roof tiles for lodges, villas, &c. at
Chatsworth, and he believes they are not excelled in efficiency or
appearance by any tiled roofs in the world.

Pipes instead of Parget for chimneys, either circular for masonry, or 14
by 9 in., and other forms and sizes, not to injure the bond of brickwork;
Grecian, Italian, pan, plain, and ornamental tiles, instead of slates,
for roofs, with tiles for the hips, valleys, and ridges, a desirable
substitute for lead, those for ridges with pyramidal points, lilies, &c.;
paving tiles, 6, 7½, and 9 in. square, blue and red, to lay in checquer;
skirting tiles; garden edging tiles, very neat; channel tiles; sough
grate tiles; drain shell tiles; conduit pipes, of various diameters,
from 3 to 16 in., with dead or socket joints, also conical, to fit one
within another—the 12 and 16 in. are well adapted fur small sewers.
Great numbers of the different sorts and sizes of these pipes have been
used upon the railways, especially the London and Birmingham, the Great
Western, and Birmingham and Gloucester lines. At home and abroad they
are preferred to lead, iron, &c., to convey water for domestic use. The
paving of this material, whether square or oblong, is clean, efficient,
and durable; it is well adapted for ground floors in general, for
outyards, footpaths in towns, &c.

Bath Depôt—Mr. W. Davey, the Quay. Bristol Depôt—Mr. G. S. Burroughs,
Canon’s-marsh. Isle of Wight—Mr. Ent. Paxton, Ryde. An early call is most
respectfully solicited.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORNAMENTAL GLASS, Wedgwood Vases, China and Earthenware.—APSLEY PELLATT,
only surviving partner of the firm of Pellatt and Green, many years
since removed from St. Paul’s churchyard to the Falcon Glass Works,
Holland-street, Blackfriars, which is the only establishment in London
where every operation connected with glass manufacture (as blowing,
cutting, engraving, stoppering, &c.) may be seen in full operation every
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. For a description, with engravings,
see Penny Magazine, No. 572. The extensive show-rooms contain a
large assortment of decanters, wine glasses, desert services, toilet
and smelling bottles, medical and philosophical glass ware, crystal
renaissance chandeliers, massive, highly refractive, and decorated with
large arabesque ornamental drops, easily cleaned; also girandoles,
candlesticks, &c. The china and earthenware comprise breakfast, dinner,
desert, tea, and chamber services, from the best manufacturers; together
with an extensive selection of Etruscan, Italian, and other vases,
modelled and executed by the most able artists at Messrs. Wedgwood’s
works, at Etruria, including his celebrated chef-d’œuvre copy of the
largest Etruscan vase in the British Museum, the Portland vase, &c.
Printed lists, with sketches, may be had on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMITH’S PATENT DOUBLE AND SINGLE ACTION DOOR-SPRINGS are warranted to be
the cheapest and best.

Patent weather-tight Fastenings and Cill bars for French casements, which
render the French windows perfectly dry, and make a secure, cheap, and
invisible fastening. Improved cramps for laying floors.

Manufactory for Iron and Brass work of every description. Depôt for the
Patent Wire, Rope, and Sash Line, 69, Princes-street, Leicester-square.




London:—Printed by Messrs. J. L. COX & SONS, 75, Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s-Inn-Fields; and published by FRANCIS NEWTON, at the Office, 2,
York-street, Covent-garden, where all Letters and Communications for the
Editor are to be addressed.
